THINGS THAT GOT LOST: 

_The history of the tree, the way the strangeness of the tree in its context obscured from her that true strangeness about it.  Something is hiding in this tree and she needs to know what.  (Alternatively she gets offed and somebody else figures it all out.)_



She felt stupid for not noticing before, the obvious strangeness of this tree.  But she also intuited that the tree had been strange to her for years, and strange to others before. 

She had always found it strange to see this massive ancient creature in the middle of the city, and she knew that it had likely survived even the Great Mourning, the Great Mourning that had taken out entire species, this tree had lived.  

She thought back to the men who had planted it here--the old Spanish missionaries.  It hurt her a bit to think of it, but she took a breath and accepted that the painful thing had happened and could not un-happen.  It was a fundamental teaching: things cannot un-happen. 

She thought of them arriving from Baja California, with wagons and burros, across the arid coastline.  Finding the people here and finding their sacred spring and planting this tree here then.  

Even as a symbol of conquest the tree was beloved, because trees are always beloved.  And so the invader remained, a strange and massive reminder of the disruption of the Europeans coming to the Americas.  

It grew, and grew.  The water of the sacred spring bubbled up and fed the tree with its clear water.  The roots of the tree spread out into the ponds of the spring, protected and living together with wild calla lillies and reeds.  It grew and grew and the strangeness of it obscured its deeply held secret.  

She sat with the tree the rest of the day.  One man wandered by, in an old-fashioned business suit.  He seemed to be like her, seeking a peaceful and quiet place, though he stood out for his bizarre attire.  They greeted each other and she went back to her studies.  She delved into the tree's history in so many ways--tasting the bark, the leaves, the soil.  She used her mind to speak with it.  She danced with it, feeling the shift of the ground beneath her and learning more about the roots as they grew below the earth, forming firm and soft striations in the soil. 

The secret began to take shape in her mind until it coalesced, finally, as a clear image in her mind:  There were seven dark, hooded figures gathered around the tree, the tree a flaming beacon--somehow both aflame and still living.  THe city around was gone, the mountains in the near distance shrouded with marine mist.  The animals around the seven were fearful but the figures themselves were unafraid.  

The tree held great power.  She needed to tell Lo.  It would save them all.  She knew it.  

She began to run out of the park and back to the house.  She smiled, she laughed.  Today was a good day. 

[chapter break]

[A few meta thoughts as we begin: The tree may in fact be from another planet/culture/civilization.  The tree may be physically hiding something.  And the tree may be false--may be the secret will help the other side but our protagonist is unable to see it because she is so committed to plants and nature.  A Trojan horse ish thing.]