Because I knew you I have been changed for good. 

That was the phrase that kept pestering her.  She had seen it on some street art--a small and beautifully rendered sentence in the midst of a profusion of flowers and skulls mixed together.  She should keep her eyes open for street art. 

As she walked home from the market she was lost in thought, scanning teh ground as she worked on the words of the song. She didn't notice the person coming the other direction until they bumped into each other.  She flushed and apologized immediately, though the other person, a very pale person with light hair, didn't say anything, just looked at her reproachfully.  

She tried not to let it irritate her but found it kept coming back to her, almost unnaturally.  Maybe she needed to get some more sleep, or drink some more water or something.  She sat on the nearest bench and put her food down.  She needed to just take a breath.  

She put her head down and realized there was writing on the bench, right where she was sitting.  It looked like someone had taken a permanent marker and decided the bench was the right place to leave a note.  Not a slogan, but an outright paragraph.

"If you don't join us, you'll regret it.  The Delvers are here to control us.  You've always known something was wrong about them, but you refuse to see it for what it is.  You're a bitch and you've always been a bitch.  Join us or don't.  We'll be just fine either way.  [needs more detail and length and personal vitriol.]"

Lo read it several times over.  She'd never seen anything like it. 