# OUR HERO

## WHO'S THE HERO

Okay, how do we have a hero when the whole concept is a world without a strong sense of heroes? 

This actually isn't that hard to understand. People make nobodies into stars all the time.  They don't have to be raised up in front of all in the book world to have a grand struggle on the world stage or whatever.  Think of Flora 717.  A hero if ever I saw one, from a communal world and very much dedicated to that world.  

Given the theme, the hero needs a connection to history which is why she's an academic/historian of some kind.  She is perhaps also a botanist.  An ethnobotanist? A historian of ethnobotany?  That sounds hard and also who does that job anyway.  Maybe it's just her hobby and not her real life. 

The puzzle will need to be surrounding the issue of the ethnobotany. Things that have crossed my mind: The forest scenes in Stranger Things (e.g. another universe touching ours), the Northern Reach trilogy (e.g. a menacing and inhuman threat)


## WHAT ARE THE TWO CONFLICTING NEEDS OF THE PROTAGONIST

She desperately needs to know the truth and/or to make sure the truth comes to light.  

BUT she also needs to survive, preferably with her loved ones intact (is that a thing you can 'prefer'? Isn't it a need at this point?)

OKAY. 

She desperately needs to know the truth and bring it to light.  

But she needs to survive as part of an intact community/family.  

## WHAT MAKES THE STAR THE STAR

She is the star.  She is the star because she is uniquely able to pull everyone out of the morass with her, she is the center of gravity of this group, people are drawn to her and always have been.  

If the story is a big blanket stretched out tight, she is a weight rolling around on it.  (That's a weird metaphor from dance making.)

She earns a strange title at some point: King of All Birds (but not that becuase that's a song title).

OKAY BUT: As established below, Lo is also a bit bookish and shy and not prone to Big Leadership Stuff.  She cries off to the side during singing practice.  She is always looking for answers outside of herself.   

The thing that makes her a star is that she says no.  

Faced with her loved one, turned dark, worming their way into her psyche, she says no. 

But what I need to know now is: 

## WHAT IS THE CROWBAR? 

In other words, what is the stuff that the villain speech preys upon? Right now she is so hermetic, so sealed off and ...

...maybe that is the thing!!! 

The thing is that her weakness is a preference for being alone, though she knows that's not a thing that they're all supposed to feel. She is supposed to forget the word alone but she desperately craves it. She craves isolation, not having to be part of the big web.  

This is getting a bit weird as her main thing but maybe it works. 

We'll see.  But I think the big threat in some ways is the sustainability/adaptability of patriarchy and power structures that we have now.  And we sealed them up but we maybe fucked it up.  

# BAD STUFF

## WHAT IS THE JEOPARDY

The jeopardy is her two conflicting needs.  She will be forced to choose.  Perhaps in her choosing she can outwit the villain and get them both--but in her heart she will know that she has to make a choice.  

(Flora 717's two needs were to survive, which entailed fitting in, and to be the unique and magical bee she knew she was.  She didn't get them--but she did get to survive in that weird parenting way.  And she definitely was the unique and magical bee.  In some ways her needs (though she didn't know them) (how interesting is that!?!?) were to save the hive and to destroy the hive.  And she saved the hive by destroying it.)

(Damn.)

That feels almost right for this story, but I'm writing visionary fiction and the world I'm drawing isn't one I want to destroy.  But the feeling of learning something horrifying and knowing that you must bring it to light despite great upheaval is very interesting to me. 

I also don't really love the "dark government" or "dark corporation" angles because I want a world without them--or with extremely weakened vestigial forms of them. 

## WHO'S THE VILLAIN

The villain is (no joke) (but lulz) a ghost or virus or meme or something like that, embedded inside of the very old tree. It is unleashed on our poor unsuspecting magic redhead (not Lo) who realizes the grave danger but cannot stop it herself.  

The idea gets out and starts infecting people. FUD spread.  Hatred and division grow. Our loyal true-hearted narrator is the only one who can counteract, though she is bookish and shy and not likely to give great speeches to the world.  

So the villain is perhaps a mindless terror, rather than a malicious person.  But we have to give somebody a really good villain speech.  A really good villain speech from somebody so close to Lo, who knows her weaknesses and knows what will make her want to turn to the dark side. 

The terror found the man with the coffee.

## WHAT IS THE MONSTER?

Monsters in gardening include: 
* Animals that eat everything
* Poisons
* Drought
* Mold
* Bugs 
* Floods/natural disasters

Monsters in history include: 
* Mold
* Decay
* Loss
* Disruptive events that destroy records
* Disinterest
* Fallibility of memory
* Ghosts 

Mold is an obvious overlap here.  Mold as it grows from small spores, a treacherous threat that works, I suppose in much the way that this culture works--communally, collectively, piece by small piece, transforming into something good (to the mold). 

The Bad Guys are the actual avatar of the villain--regular humans who have become infected into this thing.  They named themselves ironically the Bad Guys, since gender has mostly disappeared and men in particular are infrequently represented. 

## HOW DO WE KEEP THE MONSTER FRONT AND CENTER IN ACT TWO?

## WHAT ARE THE STAKES

The stakes are huge--the whole society. Not sure how yet. 

## WHAT IS THE VILLAIN SPEECH

# OVERVIEW

## WHAT'S THE COUNTER THEME

This one is fascinating.  In a world like the one I envision, what is the counter theme? If the theme is something like: we can grow together into a stronger species, what is the opposite theme? What will be the ongoing struggle in the other direction? Or will there be a crisis? There has to be a crisis or this book will really be terrible. 

## WHAT IS THE INCITING INCIDENT?

The inciting incident is one of two things: 

Either our star becomes aware of some information that disrupts their sense of equilibrium and joy--some deeply threatening information that either needs to be kept secret or that needs to be brought to light (at great social cost, I'm guessing). 

OR

There's an inciting incident from the outside.  A new generation of babies is born unable to connect with each other.  A force from outside (another planet?) comes in and fucks shit up.  Animals gain the ability to speak to us and turns out they are huge dicks.  I don't know. 

ALSO 

Don't forget that bad things can just happen. 

The inciting incident is the afternoon with the tree. I don't know what it incites yet, but that's the moment. 

## WHAT IS THE EMBEDDED CLIMAX?

I don't remember what an embedded climax is meant to be. But here's the thing I think it is: 

The bad thing (whatever the bad thing is) must be brought into the culture, must be digested by it and transformed. 

Could the bad thing threaten the tree? 

Be the tree? 
 
Be inside the tree? 

## WHAT'S THE CLIMAX

How do we have a gardening related climax? It sounds so boring and slow. Why did I do this to myself. 

Okay, I think it's a mold or invasive species that unlocks the baddy. 

The climax goes something like this:

Lo has the cure/the key.  She has the right song but they all have to sing it together.  She's trying to gather her people together and get them in the right place and right context. 

She goes to her most trusted person but they've turned.  They've gone bad and they want her to go with them.  She doesn't realize it at first then realizes that something is very very wrong.  She tries the song on them but it's not enough by herself.  They sing a counter melody and she feels herself falling.  She runs away.  She knows she needs to get the others and she still wants to get her bestie.  But her bestie isn't there anymore.  

And now the bestie knows waht's up and pursues them all, disrupting and flipping them as able. 

Finally Lo is able to reach the tree, has the robes, has the folks and together they sing, the mountains quiver and the buildings vanish and they are in a new place, they are the original ones who tried to cast this spell of protection and failed, the tree is flaming and they get it right this time. (We have to find the flaw in whatever it was before.)

They return to the present moment, much older and more tired.  

Lo has lost her bestie. She writes a new song of mourning for the loss, but a new song--with a solo. With some love song references. 

## WHAT'S THE CONCEPT

together = better

It's like Cloud Atlas but for raging feminists who hate cars. 

It's like a time travelling Snow Crash. 

## HOW DO THE CHARACTERS REPRESENT THAT CONCEPT?

## WHAT'S THE GENRE

I'm thinking like... a visionary mystery novel.  An informational mystery novel. 

Unsurprisingly Snow Crash continue to point the way but I can't put my finger on how.  

IT'S A THRILLER!! DUH.  This is always what I write (that's a lie) but it's totally a thriller. I love reading thrillers but they're all full of ridiculous men and women treated like trash.  I want a thriller that can happen in a world I want to live in and FOR FUCK'S SAKE I want a thriller with a feminine/female/nb protagonist, this shit shouldn't be that hard and NOBODY GETS TO FUCKING SWOOP IN AND SAVE HER. 

## WHAT'S THE THEME

The theme has something to do with: 

History and how we care for it

The Great Mourning is a period of loss and letting prized things/beings/experiences slip into the past gracefully. Then understanding that things will die and we are here to help the dead decay and feed the living. 

We let the GM fix a lot of things about our eocological problems.  We are still, however, a species with conflict and desire and ambition.   

# The theme is death, maybe.  History & gardening.  

There is also a strong musical component because like obviously. I'm sure there's a novel that I'm biting this whole singing-to-the-plants thing from but I can't name it at present. 

## WHAT IS THE SETTING 

North American city in ruins? Deciduous foresty place.  Highways are gone. 

## RANDOM THOUGHTS

"Rosa Luxemburg said the revolution would be a spiritual transformation and Adrienne traces that out beautifully in her post." Femme Too Deep podcast.  Some people want to behave and some people want to get free. They're all surviving. -adrienne maree brown