# TODO: Write about the incident that caused the tree to be what it is. 

He had been travelling with the padres since they left the Old World.  He was travelling as a humble servant and secretary, a man whose name would never be entered into any permanent record though his was the hand that scrawled it.

He'd been travelling for so long, over hellish open desert, the suffering of which he'd hoped to never encounter. His tongue had blistered from thirst by the time they reached this place and the kind people here.  The first missions had established a nice system of churches but their maps had led them astray. 

The people of the mission had kindly brought him to their sacred spring.  He wanted to dunk his entire head in the cool fresh water but they were holding him back.  They dipped into the water and brought it to him.  He drank so fast it hurt his mouth, his throat, but he didn't care.  He drank so much that he Hvomited it all back up a moment later, falling to his hands and knees.  He could see distress in their eyes but didn't care.  He started to crawl toward the spring but a woman stepped in front of him and begged him not to.  She offered another bowl. 

He drank it, then she led him away to sit under a tree.  

It was only after another hour of resting and drinking water that he saw the tree.  He could have touched it earlier, that's how close it was, but he had eyes for the water only.  This tree was magnificent--young and strong, growing well from the fresh water of the spring.  He knew this tree: this was the tree the padres were said to plant at every spring they encountered.  The long branches drooped toward the water like hair over a woman's face.  He knew this was the tree he'd been sent for. 

"Senor, you like our springs?"

He nodded and reached out for the water jug.  "I do."

"We are proud of the water, and we take good care of it. It takes good care of us."

He nodded again. He wasn't sure he could speak much. 

"What's your name?" he finally asked. 

"Loana. What should I call you, senor?"

"Senor is just fine."

She nodded. She looked at him and said very carefully: 

"Senor, the water is sacred. You are not allowed to touch it at any time. If you need water, find me or another water keeper and we will fetch it for you.  It is important you not break this rule or you will be severely punished.  We will all be severely punished."

He felt his cheeks grow hot.  How could this woman have any idea what he was thinking? It was just a regular conversation they must have with strangers. 

"Senor, do you understand?"

"Yes, Loana, of course I understand, I'm not stupid." He spat the words at her and stood up, less steadily than he'd like. 

She stood up next to him and he realized that despite her deferent attitude she was at least as big as he was--tall and broad-shouldered.  And she did not seem afraid of him any longer. 


He didn't know what had sent him on this journey but he knew he was meant to be here. He knew she was part of this journey.  

---

That night he slept in the small building outside the mission.  It had a rough bed in it, and a few other men passing through were sleeping there.  The padres were inside, undoubtedly gossiping in their Latin and eating better food than he got. 

He got up to relieve himself and saw the springs and the tree. The moon was three-quarters full and the ground was well lit--no need to worry about tripping as he headed off to the forest to relieve himself.  

He pulled his cock out of his leather pants, holding it in his hands.  He sighed gently as relief entered him.  This place was nice.  It was no wonder they'd sent him here on the mission.  

He remembered the day he'd gotten the call.  A young child walked up to him in the street and said the Boar was waiting for him at the barn.  He didn't ask any questions--this code was not a surprise and the child wouldn't have known anyway.  It was likely the child didn't last the night, given the import of the message--he hadn't thought about that child since that day.  It had been a girl child, it was always a girl child for obvious reasons.  Her face was clean but the rest of her was fairly filthy--oily hair and hands with dark edged fingernails.  Her big blue eyes had caught him off guard. 

He'd gone to the back room of the tavern--the Boar's Hunt, they called it.  A figure waiting in the dark had gestured toward a door.  He walked across the brick floor, a bit unsure but trying hard not to show it. The door was as old as the rest of the bar and dragged heavily on the iron hinges.  He found himself faced with a dark staircase with a light at the bottom, a candle in a wall niche. 

When he got down there the voice called to him from the back of the room.  "Toma la luz." (writer's note: pls forgive my Spanish.)

"Si, senor."

"Ven aqui."

He didn't respond but grabbed the candle and walked toward the voice.  The candle illuminated a room with a large circular table in the middle of it.  The table seemed to be...was that blood? There were large stains on the surface, and a large crucifix engraved on the surface.  The hooded figure sat away from the table in the corner. 

"Me dicen que eres un hombre [reliable]."

"Si, senor, me trata tener honor en cada momento."

"Me dicen que tienes la corazon de sombra."

He didn't know what to say to that.

"Queremos un hombre como usted.  Necesitamos ayuda de alguien que entienda nuestra...mision"

He glanced at the table. 

"No, no es la misma mision de los padres."

"Si, por supuesto, senor." 

"Tengo un regalo por....las femeninas de la futura."

Raul wrinked his brow but didn't speak. 

"Quiero que irte a California y darlelas."

He passed a glass vial with a dark dust in it.  In the candle light he could see a strange pattern form as he reached for the vial but as soon as he grasped it, the light faded and it seemed to be nothing more than iron filings or something like it. 

"Tienes preguntas. Pero tambien tienes dudas. Y por eso, mandamos tres otros.  Si gana, el regalo eternal estare suyo. Damas y putas, oro y sangre. Todo que quiere."

Raul felt his palms grow cold.  He hadn't realized another man had entered the room until the senor asked them both to have a seat.  And then they heard the plan. 

---

It had been three, maybe four years since that day.  He knew nothing about the other men who had been sent.  He had no idea if he was the first or the last.  The padres had no idea of his true mission.  He was sworn to secrecy and could feel the scar on his wrist from the blood oath.  But he needed to know. 

He put his dick away and walked back towards the mission.  His body was not remotely recovered from the journey but at least now he had enough liquid in him to piss.  Tomorrow he would ask. 

---

He was told to drill a hole in the tree during the full moon, and then to shove the vial inside of the tree, into its core. It needed to be the full moon, not just before or after.  It needed to be this tree.  It needed to be hidden again once it entered, a special salve put on the tree to ensure no infection entered and killed the protector of this special gift.  What, where, when and how were abundantly clear to him; the why was obscured and he liked it that way. 

THe old man who knew the moon cycles had mentioned it to him--it was great luck.  So that night he lay in bed, trying not to toss and turn so much that the others would wake.  He drifted off at one point and awoke with a start.  Sure, he could do this in a month but he was worried the padres would need to move on and he'd need to invent a reason to stay.  Much easier to get it done and to wait for the rewards. 

The moon turned the world a soft blue--only in the new world, in the desert had he seen full moons this bright.  Each plant cast a perfect shadow of itself, blue on light blue.  The tree was obvious. He was obvious as he walked over, so obvious she almost couldn't believe he was making the attempt. 

Loana had known since the first day that there was something wrong with this man from what he called the old world, but it had taken a few days to sort out that he was not only wrong but he was a Bad Guy.  They had discussed it over dinner, her and the other water keepers.  The legends didn't teach them exactly what was coming, but they knew they needed to protect themselves and their families from these greedy Bad Guys, these people who didn't ask questions or know anything about themselves and their place in the world. 

She sat in the shadow of the tree, unmoving, watching his figure as he approached.  He was handsome enough, but she was repelled entirely by him.  Something about his oily face, his smile that implied more than she wanted and followed always by a frown or at best, a smirk.  She didn't like any of the Spanish, really, but the rest had insinuated their way here. 

He acted like he could see, walking quickly as a man unafraid of stepping on a cactus or rock, but she could tell that he was also unafraid of a woman hiding in wait for him. 

CONTINUES IN 2017.11.15.MD


# TODO: Write about when the tree released itself into the Bad Guys. 

Many many miles away a pale blond man sat at a table, reading a book on the thick slab of wood that formed the table's surface.  It was late, not sure what time.  He had a cup of coffee near him.  He had a notebook open next to the book, taking notes on what he was reading.  It was a book he found in the back of the library and it seemed no one had read it in a very long time judging from the dust and the nearly immaculate but very brittle binding. 

It was a day like any Tuesday. He lived alone; he ate what he wanted when he wanted to.  He didn't have a lot of friends and his family was long gone.  He read most nights until 2 a.m. or so, feeling the coffee fill his stomach and warm him up.  

There was a flash in the distance bright enough to cast a shadow from his coffee cup for the two seconds it was lit--he looked up and could see a very large beacon of light off in the distance.  He could see it out the window of his third-floor apartment.  He stood up and walked over to the balcony, wondering if he'd see it again. 

For the better part of ten minutes he waited but nothing more happened.  The building he lived in was largely abandoned--he liked the quiet but now he wished he had a neighbor to confirm with. 

He sat back down and tried to get back to reading.  He sipped his coffee and started the page again.  

Maybe it was a strange form of lighting.  Or maybe someone had lit a bonfire?  He kept getting distracted by memories of the shadow of his coffee cup.  

It hadn't looked like what the shadow of a coffee cup should look like.  It had looked like a small creature was crawling on his desk--almost like it was crawling into his cup of coffee.

He scoffed to himself and went back to the book.  But he found himself reading the same paragraph three times. He couldn't keep his eyes off the coffee cup.  He picked it up and swished the cooling liquid in the cup. This was nonsense. He took another sip to prove to himself everything was fine and indeed, it was just a cup of lukewarm coffee. 

He decided he needed to get some sleep.  Maybe he should call somebody up in the morning--he'd been spending too much time alone.  His cat meowed at him from the doorframe and he took it as a sign. 

He did not notice the shape the coffee made as he poured it out into the kitchen sink--it looked uncannily like an old willow tree, frozen in that shape for a moment before the black liquid seeped down the drain. 

---

His dreams that night were awful but not scary, somehow.  Everyone around him was afraid, it seemed, but they seemed to be afraid of him.  It was absurd.  They acted nice to his face but he could see the way they talked about him when they thought he wasn't looking.  He felt both immeasurably powerful and utterly powerless, a lone ship on a large sea, floating above it all but at the mercy of the elements, the fish, the loneliness. 

He awoke and lay in bed, looking at the dark ceiling.  The crickets had gone to sleep; everything was silent. He felt a fever coming on. That had to be what it was. 

---

He woke again, shivering and yet overheated. The sun was high in the sky.  His cat was hiding in the corner, utterly unwilling to come back by him. 

---

He awoke again. He didn't know what day it was but he was a new man.  He was a man.  He was awake and ready to take everything that belonged to him. He could tell he had changed. He had finally found the thing he'd been looking for; or perhaps it had finally found him. 

----

# TODO: Finish Su's scene.