[con't from 2017.11.20.md]

Something about the way they said void had made her tremble--her stomach heaving. Her vision blacked out in the center of her eyes. The song was still reverberating in the large honeycomb shaped hall when her vision returned. 

Un felt for Lo, but also knew she was not someone to pity.  They had read her records, and it was clear she would be able to handle herself--well, no one could really handle themselves around the Delvers but she would be fine.  Still, only occasionally and with great preparation for the other had they ever done what they just did to Lo: a concentrated blast of gratitude wrapped around a core of fear and anxiety.  The fact that she was still standing showed her mettle.  Un was intrigued, to sya the least. 

"Lo, good to see you this morning." Un called out to her across the hall. "Join us, if you will."

Lo walked over to Un, hoping she looked more level than she felt.  "Quite a greeting you all put together."

A quiet round of laughter moved around the table as the Council moved to put their sunglasses back on and took their seats.  Lo smiled as she sat down.  She would not let them put her off. She would resist their powers as much as she could. 

[does lo have a special ability to retreat inside herself? does she know that she has it or is it instinctive?]

A person across the table stood up.  They were also tall--they looked perhaps like a sibling or close relative of Un.  Lo assumed the Delvers were genetically different from the general population so perhaps it was logical for them to look alike. "We are here because of a grave threat to the Delvers. We believe you'll be able to help us."

"Forgive me if I don't introduce all of us.  We needed everyone here for...well, reasons you'll come to see.  I trust Fi told you the basics?"

"They told me that something happened regarding that old tree out by the springs, and that it had...infected or damaged some of your Delvers. They said you needed help with the history of the area." 

"Indeed.  Fi came back damaged but relatively healthy.  The other two Delvers came back burned out.  They can no longer Delve, nor can they Receive."

They paused and looked around the council. Early morning light streamed through the windows onto the table and Lo wondered if she could get some coffee.

"We have things to tell you about the Delvers that non-Delvers are not allowed to know, but without this information you "

Actually maybe not. Maybe they withhold the info and that becomes part of the conflict.  

"We would like to send you to the tree to see "

"We have heard reports from distant Wells that some of their Delvers have disappeared. The "

TODO: This Council of Delvers scene is a mess and I don't know where to go with it.

---


Un, Zo and Mq sat in a small room of the Well together.  Fi was there, too, off to the side.  Un would have to sort out what to do with Fi and the other damaged ones--they made the Delvers uncomfortable and that kind of tension would not be good for the community as a whole.  But they couldn't simply eject Fi, either.  Bad for morale. 

Zo cleared their throat, "You called us here to talk about the situation?"

Un nodded. "There are many things going on.  First, we have our damaged Delvers here." Zo glanced unintentionally at Fi and saw them cringe away from the attention. "Second, we need to remove the threat of the tree. And third, we need to figure out if this has anything to do with the greater problems with Delvers in the region."

"I have some ideas about the second one," Zo started. Zo's role as community organizer [need a better title] meant she knew a lot about the area and the people who lived there. "There's a woman named Lo who writes books about the area--she's knowledgeable and well connected. If anyone is going to know something special about that tree, she is where I'd start."

"We obviously can't send any more Delvers, not after the way the last one came back," Mq responded gruffly. 

"She's not a Delver--she's just another person. I've only met her once or twice, but I reviewed her book on the area before she published it and found her quite insightful."

"What's her full name?" Mq asked. Mq's specialty as a delver was to test new born babies to see if they would be a good fit for the Delvers. It had been quite a while since Mq had done the tests themselves--now a gray-haired and rugged faced person, Mq was responsible for training and overseeing the corps of Finders. They pulled up their book of names. 

"Lo Ana Iquy."

Mq began flipping through the book, cross-referencing their enormous storage cavern's organizational scheme. "Fi, fetch me this file, if you would." Mq scrawled a ten digit number on a note card and passed it over. 

"In the mean time, I have reports of more Delvers going missing. We haven't lost any here but there seems to be a handful of Wells suffering from missing Delvers and....other disturbing incidents."

"You think it's related?"

"The timing is incredibly suspicious. I've sent envoys to each Well reporting missing Delvers to tell them what we experienced. I don't trust it by mail."

[stuff happens, or maybe the file is brought in with them]

Fi returned with the file, put it on the table and returned to their seat on the side of the room. 

Mq opened the file and started scanning. Un could see something interesting was presenting itself by the way Mq's eyes opened slightly.  

"I don't think she's a good choice." Mq said, still lost in the file. 

Un arched an eyebrow and waited.  

"She has...a strange history.  We tested her as a baby and I thought at first she would be perfect for us.  She's got a strong voice and memory for the songs, but there's something about her...we brought her here and although she was very well behaved, there was something...off.  The nursery was disrupted the entire time she was here. She had a lot of power for both unification and disruption but we couldn't get her to work for us. We had to send her home."

"They found her singing strange songs, even in the crib." A long pause.  "She liked to sing songs like the old songs, songs where she was the soloist, if you will." Un almost had forgotten the word. "The other babies would sing along with her but the nurses found it...discomfiting.  They felt like she was exerting a strange power over the other children."

"Is that all? It hardly seems enough to say no in this case."

"Another Delver had a vision about her.  They awoke from it in a fit, screaming 'Beware the King of All Birds'. And when they calmed down they described her perfectly-they said a person named Lo had risen to destroy the Delvers, that she would be the end of us." Mq paused at length.  "It was Gi who had the vision."

The three of them sat in silence.

"Let's send her." Though they weren't a hierarchical organization, Un spoke with the kind of authority only earned by long and hard service, smart ideas and a good eye for the Wells. The other two didn't respond at first, until Zo turned to Fi. 

"Get her for us."

---

[Note: Zo probably isn't the one who helps when Lo arrives]

---

[This scene is something to do with how Lo breaks the Delvers]


She looked up from the mud under her knees.  

She didn't know how long she'd been there, but she was very cold.  It had probably been a while. 

Her last memory had been of her and her friends, Fi and Su and ??, singing the song of the tree. She closed her eyes. Why did she remember them in robes? 

Why did she remember the tree rising into the sky as a vision of flame? 

She looked up and saw the tree still dead, but blackened.  The stump was missing entirely; a large muddy hole filled with spring water remained.  

She stood up and walked to the spring.  The water looked clear as ever.  She dipped her hands in and washed her face.  The water was cool but not as cold as she was.  Her hands came back a bit red--that headache must be more than just a headache.  She saw her friends a bit away, Fi holding Su. They hadn't seen her yet. 

It was time.  It was time to dismantle the Delvers and share their knowledge among everyone.  The time for meaningless songs and elaborate gift exchange was over--now was the time when all would know the meaning of what they sang, all would be able to write a new song whenver they needed to.  All would know what it was to love via giftgiving, not to merely feel the love required biologically. 

Here she was, King of All Birds, ready to lead a new flock to the future.  

The towns where the Delvers had gone bad were most badly hurt--after these months of violence and cruelty, they would need a lot of work.  She looked into the bubbling, rippling water.  It would be dangerous to go into these wounded towns and neighborhoods, to bring back the order that they were no longer equipped to live without.  

She wouldn't be able to do it alone--she would need the Delvers.  

She turned to find Un.  They were curled up sleeping beneath a tree.  She admired that they'd been able to climb somewhere and go asleep intentionally. 

The sun shone brightly through the bare branches of the trees.  The wind was sharp and the world smelled of mud and green life.  They had fences to cut down, people to teach.  They needed to get started right away. 

The bubbles continued to break the surface of the springs.  She thought of all who had passed by this exact spot over the centuries--hunter gatherers, Spanish vaqueros, American families, curious teenagers, and now this: the dark resolution to a problem centuries in the making.  She cupped her hands and drank deeply of the springs.  She would need its strength for the time to come: The Time of All Songs.  She knew in her bones everything would be different. 


---

Su was reading a book when Lo returned home from the Well.  In truth, she's been trying and failing to read a book--Lo was supposed to be home today and she wasn't anywhere to be seen.  

So when the door opened, Su pretended to keep reading but her face broke into a smile.  

"I'm home."

Su threw the book down and hopped up. 

"You can't do that again."

They stood and looked at each other for a while.  Lo knew that Su hated this kind of thing but..she hadn't had a lot of choice. Then Lo dropped her bag and hugged Su, singing a quiet, regretful but not quite apologetic song in her ear.

"They needed me."

"What's happening?"

It was a long story and Su didn't entirely follow it.  But the basics: They needed to learn everything they could about the tree and its history and share it with the Delvers.  They needed to understand what lived inside of it and they needed to understand if it was as bad as the Delvers thought.  

They sat down to make a plan.  Over many cups of tea, and many breaks to hum songs together as they stretched their bodies, they put together a plan.  Su would go to the Library to get the books and maps Lo needed.  Lo would look at her existing research materials.  And then, once they knew a bit more, they would go to the tree itself.  They weren't Delvers--they should be safe. At least as far as anybody knew. 

[That's where the scene of Su going off on her motorcycle occurs.]

---

Su hadn't come back and Lo needed to get to the tree before the next full moon--she wass sure there would be a relevant before and after, that something would change.  The old legends she had found in her research indicated that the tree turned dark on full moons, that strange vapors and noises were witnessed then, and that the tree was friendly on the new moons.  

The full moon was a few days away. Lo needed to go now to see how it changed.  It was time for her to move. 

--

After about an hour on the bike, she knew she was getting close.  It had been a few years since she'd been here but it had been such a big part of her research she didn't need to look at a map. 

But the fence was new. 

Was it?  It looked new.  But who would have a fence like this anymore?  Wire wrapped together in a grid, with sharp razor wire at the top. 