[Council of Delvers]

Here is what we know so far. 

We won't cover what we learned from your excellent book on the subject.  But we believe there was a song used over the years to cleanse the tree, sort of. We don't know if it was a song of protection or removal.  We have a few songs in our records of songs from the group of Watchers, but none of them seem to be quite right. 

We think there may have been another entity involved, someone who was corrupting the watchers until they finally fell into ruin.  It seems like perhaps we have been lucky that nothing has happened before this--or perhaps Fi caused it by Delving the tree itself.  We don't know.  We've never encountered anything like this--a sentient tree, maybe. A powerful spell set on the tree, perhaps.  But we have members of every Well within a 500 mile radius and they all have had problems starting the night of Fi's vision. 

Lo waited.  "I'm sorry but, really? A vision? That's what we're going on here."

Un glanced at the oldest person at the table. They nodded. 

"Lo, what we're about to tell you is known only to Delvers. If you share this information outside the Delvers, well, we don't know what will happen to you but we know that it would bring ruin to the Delvers."

"We've been engaged in a multigenerational program of selecting extraordinarily sensitive people and training them to use those senses in ways that normal humans are not able to. And, while we don't force anything, we encourage marriage and child-rearing among Delvers who wish to do so to increase the sensitivity of our kind even further.

Over the centuries of doing this work, we've found some extraordinarily talented individuals--and we've learned to trust their instincts.  The information they sense manifests in strange ways, as visions that are sometimes literal and sometimes simply a warning processed into a more abstract form by their subconscious.  And each of these Delvers tends to specialize in certain ways.  Fi's specialty is, was..." they paused "plant-related. From a young age they were an exceptional gardener, able to heal almost any unhappy plant. They used to report stories from the plants, and gradually we've been able to hone it into a very powerful ability.

"So, yes. Yes, we are going off a vision. It's what we've done for centuries and it's what we'll continue to do."

Lo glanced at Fi, who looked at her directly now that she had glasses on. She remembered the dark visions she had received from Fi the first time they'd met. Lo looked at Un, and then scanned the Council slowly. 

"You want me to find a song."

"We want you to find a song and we want you to sing it at the site of the tree. We can't risk any more Delvers going there.  Bring in the damaged Delvers."

Two figures emerged from the far side of the room, guided benevolently by an older person.  They seemed to struggle to walk in a straight line; the guide held each by a shoulder and walked slowly to keep them relatively on track.  They wore a different color of robe and very large reflective goggles. 

"Fi came back unable to properly Delve and to connect people.  These two..." Un sounded truly sad for the first time.  "These two are now dangerous, with the skill of a Delver but they seem infected by a desire to disrupt and scare people instead of bringing us together. They...they nearly caused some discord here at the Well before Fi realized what was happening.

"We think this may be what happened to the missing Delvers. We don't have proof that it did, but the type of reports we're getting from the communities where they went missing show bizarrely clicquish, tribal behavior.  The sort of thing Delvers are trained to prevent. So now we're spreading from the healthy wells out to the weakened ones, trying to stop the spread of this...virus and we can't risk any more good Delvers at the spring. We need you, Lo.

It was the second time this week Lo had heard anything other than serenity and unity from the mouth of a Delver. 

---

He didn't go to the Well again. 

He could barely remember the strange vision of the night (?) before, only knew that he felt uncomfortable when he tried to think of that night or what came before. 

He felt lonely.  And angry.

When his neighbor came to borrow a book, he invited them in for tea.  They joined, glad to spend a bit of time with a friend.  And then he did what he wanted--he unfurled his abilities and pushed a little bit of fear into them as they talked about the Delver they'd seen that day, singing to a little girl on the side of the road.  He enjoyed watching their posture change as his emotions colored their own.  He'd always been good, so subtle that most people didn't notice the work he was doing on them.  

He went for a walk the next day.  He went to the market, felt the weaving of all the people coming and going, the knots formed everytime two people spoke--asking the price of two silvery fish, saying hello.  

He felt the Delver approach long before they got to the market.  He didn't have much time, so he took off his glasses and looked into the eyes of a passing parent with their child.  He encouraged them with his look to fear their child.  He could see them clasping the child's hand more closely. The Delver was getting close and some part of him knew that was going to be a bad scene. 

He turned down an alley and started walking quickly away. He bumped into someone walking the opposite way and they fell--then he felt a seizure in the web, the network. They'd sniffed him out; they'd sensed another Delver and the confluence of the disturbance and him...well, he guessed it made them nervous for him.  They were approaching more quickly and he felt a sense of nausea as they came closer--loathing that filled him up.  He started sprinting away, the people around him turning to gape at him like the wake of a boat on the water.  He needed them to ignore him if he was going to escape. 

The Delver was still seeking him, and then he felt another blip off to his right.  Was it possible they had summoned help?  He darted down a road to his left, bicycles swerving to avoid him. He knew a back way up here--an old road that had been divided into a bicycle path and a walking path, with the walking path splitting off into a separate wooded area.  And on the other side of the wooded area was his home.  He just needed to get clear of all these people and their feelings.  He started singing as he jogged along the path, a song of joy and companionship, hoping it would soothe the people around him, make them forget he had passed. It seemed to be working so he kept it up until the break in the path.  There wasn't much traffic and the Delvers had stopped their pursuit.  He slowed to a walk and stopped at a boulder next to the path to catch his breath.  He let his senses open up to sense as much as he could.  The surface of the community was normally like a calm pond to him; now it was a turbulent pond, water that had been disturbed by so many forces you couldn't tell the source of the disturbance.  He found it beautiful, energetic, the swirling and choppy flavor of the moment.  

It felt new and fresh, and it felt powerful.  He felt a future stretching out before him, very different from the old life. 

---

The elevator broke.  This is new and I'm immediately trying not to worry to find the best way out of the situation. I turn to look at the woman in the elevator to judge her reaction. She's calmly sizing up the situation, near as I can tell, and not terribly concerned about me.  She's about 6 feet tall--bigger than me--and has a short haircut, curly, very dark hair.  Her eyes are large, but so are all her features.  She is not very expressive so it's hard for me to know what's going on with her. 

"Looks like we're stuck." I say. 

"Mmmm".

Not a talker.  Okay, I don't need to talk either.  I consider the buttons.  I press the already-lit button for the fourteenth floor but nothing happens.  

"We're not going anywhere." She says. 

I laugh to break the tension.  "So it seems."

"You don't like to make direct statements, do you?"

I'm taken aback and purse my lips, putting on my "I'm thinking face". "I suppose not."

"See?"

I laugh and am surprised when she laughs as well. "Most people don't realize how much they hedge. Sorry to be so rude." 

"No worries, really."  I begin to think maybe I'm trapped in the elevator with someone interesting, at the least. "I'm Tara, I work here. How about you?"

"I'm Lo.  I was coming to visit a friend who works here--do you know Su?"

"The long brown haired one?" 

"No, they have short hair, they work in janitorial."

"Sorry, no." 

We wait for a long moment. 

"Ever been stuck in an elevator before?" I ask. 

"No, I've only rarely been in one."

"I take them every day."

"What do you do here?"

"I maintain the archives."

"Mmm, interesting." She seems to be warming to me, finally.  "You know, I've been looking for someone to interview about that.  We're a bit stuck here, waht do you think?"

"Interview for what?"

"I'm writing a song about how we keep the archives, how we save them as time moves forward.  Just sort of a pet project."

"Well, sure....I guess we might as well."

She pulls a notebook out of her bag and sits on the floor.  Wanna join me? It might be more comfortable"

I sit cross-legged on the floor--the first moment I remember there are about 12 stories of empty air below us.  

"It is what it is, isn't it?" she says.  It's a bit more cryptic than I'm used to but I nod and laugh. 

"It is."

"Okay, so, Tara, how is it to keep the archives?"

"Well, the biggest "

[This feels a bit elaborate and not a lot helpful. Thanks anyway writing exercise. ]

---

Fi arrived the next morning, knocking on their door around 9 am. Lo had not been expecting Fi (yes she had been). 

Fi offered to cook breakfast that first morning and it became something of a habit--they cooked breakfast, eggs and vegetables and mushrooms.  This particular day they'd gone out to the forest and found a giant puffball, which they'd cooked in big crescent moon wedges.  Lo admired the plate, the big wedge of mushroom with two eyes made of eggs.  Fi was growing on her. 

"How'd you sleep, Fi?"

"Just fine. I had a dream..."

Lo listened without looking up. She'd learned that Fi was a bit skittish about their sensitivities and abilities, and wasn't used to talking about them outside of the Well.  

"It was from when you were a baby."

Lo studiously contained her face. "What do you mean?"

"I mean it's from when you were with the Delvers."

Lo put her fork down, the tines resting on the unbroken yolk of one of the eggs.  "What do you mean?" she repeated. 

Fi looked up, eyes hidden behind her glasses. "You really don't know."

Lo waited as patiently as she could, feeling emotions rising inside her, feeling as if she were being brought to a boil.  Fi put her hand on Lo's arm, and Lo could feel the pressure draining off somewhat. 

"Tell me what you mean when I was with the Delvers."

"I, I assumed your parents would have told you about it..."

Lo just waited, her face calm as a pond. 

"I shouldn't tell you."

"I should think you won't be able to avoid it, now."

"I...Okay, look, you can't tell them you know. The Delvers or your parents. Nobody.

"When you were a baby the Delvers took you in."

The rage inside her finally blossomed into a bright red spot in her eyes. She'd known from the moment Fi had resisted telling her, she'd known the rage would come and she'd waited.  Almost smirking and now that it came she felt she could break every stick of furniture in the house.  She could throw her teacup at the wall and she could nearly feel every scrap of rage and sorrow she'd ever felt at not being chosen rising in her, it felt like it was physically moving up from her pelvis, up her spine and she could feel a bunch of sharp-edged rubies moving in her blood and she was ready for battle. 

Fi sat motionless, a rabbit caught in the panther's line of sight. No part of them blinked, twitched. Lo believed that Fi may have stopped breathing. 

She laughed.  She put down her teacup.  She walked out the front door. 

---

She went to the spring, alone, for the first time since this had all started.  The tree was there, with a welling of sap on its bark that looked new--looked like blood.  She walked up to it, arms numb, hands numb, head floating.  She peered at the smear on the tree, the dripping color, and determined it was likely sap. 

She had known, of course.

She had known exactly where she belonged, from the start, from her earliest memories.  She wanted to storm into her parents' home and get the answers she wanted to know everything she wanted to reverse it all and suddenly her hand was very sore because she had started hitting the tree. 

She stopped. She sat beneath it, looking into the water. 

She almost didn't realize where she was or why she had come here.  But then it dawned: The Delvers couldn't follow her here.  And maybe here she could if there was something about her that was or wasn't like them.  

Goddam her hand hurt. 

There were a few birds nearby, singing their short melodies to each other.  The grass from the meadow rustled, dry and tall this late in the year. The smell of mud was strong. 

The tears were hot on her face.  She was crying as hard as she'd ever cried and was relieved to be alone, here, in this fucked up place the Delvers had sent her to. The Delvers who finally decided she was worth their time, now that it threatened them.  What the fuck was wrong with her that they didn't want her? What the fuck happened when she was there? How had her parents hidden this from her after her incessant and demanding interest in the Delvers? She wiped the tears from her face, which set off a new round and she sunk her head into her palms.  

---

A few hours later she was asleep beneath the tree. Her head ached but she was exhausted--unable to summon the wash of rage from earlier.  She was defeated. She had been defeated. She had been rejected and now here she was, errand boy for the victors.  

She looked up at the tree and saw another opening beginning to drip sap.  And she realized there was something new happening. 

There were birds.  There were birds in the branches, birds on the ground, birds in the nearby tree.  There was a bird on the small rock next to the sprint.  Sparrows, swallows, crows, even a hummingbird, a flycatcher, and a few geese.  They were silent.  They were watching her.  

She looked behind herself and realized they had surrounded her entirely.  She scrambled to get her back against the trunk of the tree.  

They sang together, all at once. Not the same song, but a song: A chaotic trumpeting, a mass of chirps and trills and honks all at once. She stood up, bracing herself against the tree.  

A crow flew down from the tree and landed in front of her.  It cawed, a single plaintive squawk and then it pitched forward, opening its wings wide to her, head down to the ground.  She didn't move. 

The other birds lined up near the crow, behind the crow, and started adopting the same posture.  

They were bowing to her. 

She felt compelled to return the gesture and executed something like she'd seen in old movies--a courtly bow, leg extended to the front.  She felt as much as she heard the birds start to depart while she was down, and by the time she straightened the last few birds were lifting off and flying away. 

This was not what she had expected. 

--

When she got back to the apartment Fi was waiting.  They sat on the couch, drawing pictures of plants--an aloe vera, an exotic looking plant covered in spines and round bulbs.  Fi looked up and dropped the pencil. 

"Lo I'm sorry. I shouldn't have told you."

"You needed to tell me. I needed to know. I'm becoming who I am, I can feel that, and nobody knows quite what that means."

Fi didn't respond to that. 

"Fi I need to know what happened."

"I don't know the details, it was before my time obviously.  All I know is they took you in from your parents and there were...troubles.  There were troubles with the other babies.  The nursery couldn't control you by delving, so they sent you home.  I don't think they've ever done that before."

"That's it. They just sent my home."

"I don't know; you can tell as well as I can that I'm not very important to them. I assumed your parents had told you. Mq is scared of you; Un seems...Un seems intrigued."

"They never said anything. It was literally the only thing I ever wanted, to be part of the Delvers. It was..." Lo stopped. She was tired of reliving this loss after the day she'd had and the ... the thing with the birds. 

"So what was this dream of yours?"

"You were at the Well.  You were singing--not like a baby sings, more like a talented child. And a bird...a bird came out of your mouth. A crow.  It hovered above you as you sang, and then it flew away. And...the Delver nurses came in and called you King of All Birds."

"King of All Birds? What is that?"

"It's probably nothing; I've never heard it before. Just some weird dream shit."

