He had a small bag with him, tied to his waistband.  She had to give him credit for walking quietly.

Okay, maybe she doesn't watch him approach.  Sorry, hapless reader. 

He swung wide around the tree and approached from the side away from the mission, trying to keep the tree between them so he wouldn't be spotted.  He walked with bent knees quickly and silently up to the tree, then crouched in the shadow side, moonlight falling on both sides of him.  He pulled the tool they gave him out of its bag--a device to bore into the heart of the tree.  He felt along the bark for a good place to begin and found a relatively smooth section of bark.  He pressed the borer up against the tree and started turning the crank.  He was grateful that it didn't squeak but it wasn't exactly silent as it drilled a hole an inch across and ten inches deep in this young tree. 

He worked quickly.  A noise came from above, like a wounded man, and he dropped the tool to the dirt.  He stayed crouched, putting his hands on the smooth bark and craned up to see if someone was in the tree.  It was dark.  He squinted against the bright moon but couldn't see anything--no movement, no strange shapes.  He could hear only the sighing of the branches, and smell the fresh sawdust from the tree and the fresh vegetation around the tree. 

He waited a few moments for his hands to steady.  He picked up the tool from the dust and finished boring the hole.  Then, from the back he kept around his neck, he pulled the vial.  He hadn't looked at it since they had given it to him, though he frequently felt the outline of it in the bag.  They hadn't told him what would happen if it broke. He had not asked. 

The vial looked fine. Unable to resist his curiosity, he held it out into the moonlight to see it better. The plain gray dust inside went from dull to iridescent, and as before it seemed as if there was almost a pattern in the dust.  It almost looked like words but he couldn't read this language. He felt his entire body go cold and snatched the vial back into the shadows.  The letters disappeared. 

He turned back to the tree and carefully placed the vial in the hole he had made for it.   He pulled the other vial from the bag at his waist--a tree protectant.  He stuck his finger in the opening and the thick green liquid coated his finger.  It smelled like something he'd never smelt before, camphorous and strong.  He rubbed the liquid in the hole as far as he could, especially around the opening.  Then he cut the bark off the wood he had bored out, and settled it in the tree, a little camouflage.  

He was excited now.  He'd finally done it.  That future of whores and ladies, gold and blood was upon him, or would be.  He could stop worrying about this life, this worthless fake mission--

---

She came up fast behind him and pinned him to the tree.  She had been on patrol and he managed to come up when she was gone.  Honestly luck is better than skill--there was no way he'd managed this on purpose.   


"What are you doing, senor?"

He smiled, despite the knife at his neck.  

She eased away from him, keeping her knife at the ready.  They had never killed at the spring and she'd like to keep it that way. 

"What are you doing, senor?" Her deference from earlier was gone completely and now he could see it was an act.  This woman had killed before and would again.  Even though he knew he'd get his reward, one way or another, she did seem to be something of an obstacle. 

She scanned the tree and while her eyes were off him, he gripped the borer in his hand, ready to use it against her.  But the knife at his throat kept him pinned. 

"Nada, senora. No hago nada. Solamente estoy [praying] en la sombra del arbol sagrado." 

"El arbol no es sagrado. Solamente el agua es."

His eyes flickered to the tree, afraid he'd done the wrong thing and she took that opportunity to pull him off his feet away from the tree.  But he was not new at this and as she pulled him her guard was done, and he slammed the cutting edge of the borer into her neck.  Blood fountained from the wound and he took pleasure in her eyes widening for him until her knife slid up and under his ribs. 

She hadn't really meant to do that.  She didn't like killing but a deep part of her brain had taken over with a desire to live and to retaliate.  Her hand was firmly pressing into him still but as he staggered and released the grip on the borer she stepped back and felt the tool stuck in her neck.  She knew this was the end. She wanted to drag him and his foul blood away from the water. She reached to grab his boot and tried to pull, but felt her grasp fail.  She fell to her knees and crawled to the edge of the water, the water she had given her life to protect.  She reached a hand into the blue pool, lit so well by the moon she could see the small fish sleeping there. She reached out and saw the blood on her hand washed away by the water.  She had not failed. 

--

The next watcher found the bodies as the sun was coming up.  She ran to tell the others.  They would need to fix this tonight. 

# TODO: Finish Su's scene.

(Note to self why do all of my scenes involve someone stealthing around.  WHY NOT COMBAT!? WHY NOT ACTION!? WHY NOT DIRECT CONFRONTATION!? I do not know the answer, hapless reader. I do not know.)

Su knew she was supposed to go to the library for that book Lo needed.  But she also knew something was not right about this strange trio who had parked their car on the freeway to hide it and were now strolling nonchalantly down the street together.  She parked her bike in an alleyway and started walking after them. 

Two of them were smaller, the third taller.  Maybe six feet tall.  They might not have seemed suspicious but seeing them in a car was enough to get Su's attention regardless.  The one on the left wore a long dress, a soft jersey knit type thing that fell to the tops of her shoes, and a blue sweater over the top.  The one in the middle wore jeans and a t-shirt, a striped shirt, and a wool hat.  The one on teh right, the tall one, wore some kind of coverall.  They looked like they were dressed for different kinds of weather, even.  She followed along at a distance, then decided to go around the block and see if she could get a good look at their faces by passing directly next to them.  

She picked up her pace and jogged quickly to the right, then down an alley and took a quick left, only to nearly run into them. 

"What the fuck" snarled the one in the hat. 

"Whoa, sorry, didn't know you were there."

"Watch where you're fucking going, [slur] [not sold on this]"

The word was so old Su almost didn't recognize it.  The person who said it seemed shocked it had come out of her mouth but -- almost pleasantly so.  Like she didn't realize she could be so terrible. 

"This is Bad Guys turf, twinkie. I wouldn't hang around here no more." 

Su blinked in shock. 

[Something I hate about the universe I'm building.  It's so utopia-ish that it's hard to generate conflict...other than a "hey this ain't your utopia no more" pollyanna-ish vibe.  Feel like I'm trying to sprint before I crawl.]

She backed into the alley and discovered the tall one behind her and felt a sharp point pressing through her jacket into her flesh.  She started to shake and stepped forward, away from that blade. "We know you've been following us. And we want you to know that there's nothing here for you but trouble." Their voice was quiet and nearly familiar--maybe an accent Su is familiar with.  Su nodded. 

"Now say it out loud with me:" They paused. "I solemnly swear to leave this alone."

"I solemnly swear to leave this alone."

"I solemnly swear that I won't come back." 

Su repeated everything they said though most of it got lost in the fear of the moment.  The idea of threatening somebody's life was so foreign but somehow her body knew what to do and kept her safe. 

She sprinted back to the bike, her library errand entirely forgotten. 

---

Su was weeping when she walked in the door. Lo stood up, startled--it wasn't common to see people cry outside of the Circles. Lo walked toward her and wrapped her arms around her, feeling Su shake and tremble as she wept.  They stood there together without speaking for another five minutes.  

Finally Su felt whole enough to begin speaking and started telling Su everything: about the car, the threesome, about the knife. 

She kept apologizing about the library but Lo wouldn't hear it.  They sat on the couch together, arms entangled, as Su recovered.  The sun outside was beginning to set in that golden yellow color.  It was time to go back to the drawing board.  

---

They put out feelers about the Bad Guys, carefully, carefully.  They watched responses--tics, eyes shifting away--they didn't want to ask the wrong people.  

What they heard was terrifying.  Over the past few months more and more incidents were happening.  There were four that were reported in the news but that dropped off quickly.  

They reached out to the journalists and never heard back.  

--

# Continuing scene from 2017.11.10.md

Io's voice seemed pitched just so for her, almost like a dog whistle. It wormed into her mind and distracted her from conversation.  It wasn't malicious--just something about that particular vibration. 

There was a knock at the door. 

They weren't expecting anybody in particular, but it wasn't a huge suprise to have someone swing by. It's why they all lived so close together--easy to borrow things, to get a hug, to find friends.  Su reached behind herself, remaining seated, and turned the knob.  Lo was still sketching and not looking up, so she didn't see the person at first.  She didn't even look up until Su said, "Can I help you?" There was a red-headed person standing inside their home, their back against the front door. 

"I saw something, I need to talk to them."  The red-head was staring intently at Lo.  "I'm sorry to come in without an invitation or introduction.  I saw something and I think you'll know something about it."

Lo didn't react; she was still processing what had already happened.  Finally she gestured to them to come closer. "What should I call you?" Lo asked quietly. 

"Fi" was the response. "She or them is fine."

"I'm Lo, though it seems you know something about me."

Lo was not particularly famous though she was well regarded as a historian, for what it was worth.  Fi stared at her and Lo stared back, willing her heartrate to slow a bit.  Fi glanced at Su and back at Lo.

"Su, do you mind stepping out for a moment?" Lo kept her voice calm, measured. 

The redhead kept her distance from them both, but once Su was out, they pushed towards Lo.  "I saw something. I think it was from the past and I need your help."

Lo invited Fi to sit and started tea for them both without asking. They were so agitated but slowly beginning to calm. "Let's wait a minute so you can catch your breath." She pulled the loose tea from the cabinet and started packing it into small steel tea baskets. 

When the tea was ready, she came back to the table with the two mugs, and slid one across to Fi. "Tell me what you want to say so badly."

Instead, Fi reached out her hand and took Lo's hand.  Lo wasn't particularly comfortable with this but Fi seemed peaceful so she went with it.  

As they sat quietly, holding hands, Fi was looking intently at Lo. Suddenly a strong itch started on Lo's shoulder.  Lo reached with her freehand to scratch and suddenly it stopped. She blinked and looked at Fi.  

Fi smiled, a very small smile.  

"Is that you?" Lo asked as she felt a warm prickling sensation move up her arm from where she held Fi's pale palm in hers up to her shoulder. 

Fi nodded.  

"So you're one of the delvers."

Fi nodded again. 

The delvers