She couldn't get him out of her head. 

He was unremarkable, like a bowl of cold oatmeal congealed in a paper bowl.  From the ill-fitting pants to the stylish glasses he was not note-worthy.  His pale skin and hair, his baby face, his adult body--none of it noteworthy but yet it carried the power and privilege of his race and his gender and his education in every step. 

And he knew it, was the worst part.  And he wanted to keep it that way. 

I don't know how this fits into the story. 

-- 
His shirt was perpetually rumpled.  He seemed to always be wearing the same outfit, though it seemed much more likely he was the type devoted to wearing the same outfit over and over rather than the type to wear the same exact shirt and pants--more of a political statement than anti-consumerist. 

Looking at him you could see a soft-bellied, mid-rank Nazi.  But without the insignia it was hard to tell. 

---

Anyway it's not about him it's about her. It's about how you can brush against pure evil and barely notice, because most of us are capable of dark deeds.  But in this time, after the Great Mourning, and the Rage of the Women, and the end of the genders, we all worked so hard to keep it under control, to find the right outlets, to be better than we ever needed to be, that she was shaken to her core to see that this was even an option for humans anymore. 

It was rare for anyone to choose the male gender, though not unheard of.  They'd been increasing, very slowly, for the last few hundred years, but by and large it was a style thing. 

So at first she just attributed her discomfort to his uncommon identity.  She had only met a few men and wasn't sure 