When she woke up it became clear she'd been drugged, or something like it. Ether? The last thing she remembered was that sharp smell and then a dizziness.

She found herself bound in the corner of a metal room, alone as far as she could tell.  The floor was corrugated steel, like the floor of a truck bed.  The walls were steel too, but smooth, and the ceiling as well.  There were shelves all around her.  She was very cold and her whole body hurt. She realized she must be in some kind of fridge or freezer or something.  Her muscles were cramping from both the position she'd been held in and the temperature.  

She had to get out of here.  Soon. 

Her legs weren't actually bound--just her hands.  Io would pay for this.  She had expected a treacherous conversation, sure, she had expected danger--but she hadn't expected to be kidnapped and left to die in an industrial refrigerator.  

Actually let's back up.  Lo doesn't really know what a refrigerator is because she's never seen one.

The air felt and smelled like the few times she'd been somewhere very cold--when she went up the mountains and stayed in a cabin for a week one winter.  Was she somewhere cold? Had they abandoned her in the north? 

She gingerly rolled onto her knees and took a breath.  Her body was incredibly stiff but functional.  This was a very peculiar room--all metal, no windows, and a strange door with a rubber skirt around the entire frame. She struggled onto her feet and wavered a bit as her muscles stretched to acommodate the new position.  

Voices, muffled, came from outside the room.  She froze, unsure of what to do. Hide? Get in position to attack? She scrambled toward the one door, standing next to it and then froze in place.  The voices seemed to be arguing with each other, but it was so muffled she could hardly hear them.  As she listened, her hands started stretching toward the ties that bound them together, trying to find an out, a way to get these off her.  She had never been bound before and the sensation was very distressing.   But her wrists weren't flexible enough to get to anything like the edge of the ties--they seemed to be some kind of stiff and scratchy fabric.

She needed to get her body in order if she was going to get out of this.  She stretched her legs behind her, feeling them spring into usefulness and alertness as blood started moving.  She explored the mobility of her shoulders, her elbows, her wrists--it wasn't much but she was able to shift her shoulders enough to relieve some of the pressure.  

The voices seemed to be growing quieter, maybe they were leaving?  It was so muted she couldn't be sure.  

But she also couldn't stay here in this cold place.  She needed to get out and find somewhere warm.  She inspected the handle of the door--it was strange but fairly easy to sort out.  She pressed her ear against the door--why was everything so cold here?--and couldn't hear any voices.  She turned and grasped the handle as best she could with her hands, and opened the door.  As soon as she felt the door clear the latch she jumped back from the opening. 

The door swung shut again.  She waited.  She waited for the door to open, or to hear footsteps or shouting.  Nothing happened.  It seemed perhaps she would be able to walk out of here. 

She tried the handle again and crept out with the door once it opened.  She was surprised to feel warm air in the corridor--maybe the other metal room just wasn't insulated.  The floor was linoleum.  The ceiling overhead was tiled with some kind of bizarre tiles and the lights were long fluorescent strips. She'd only seen a place this ugly and depressing in movies. She recognized it as some kind of large institution--like maybe the staff area of a large restaurant or a hotel.  Doors lined the hallway with numbers and sometimes name plates on them. 

She didn't see or hear anyone.  The linoleum hallway passed beneath her feet and suddenly she was flooded with so many things she didn't want to lose when she died.  The way the golden leaves of the tree outside her window flooded her apartment with yellow light on a fall afternoon.  The taste of hot tea late at night, filling her from the inside out with warmth and contentment.  She felt her cheeks flush as she thought about that copy of Wild Mind her parent had given her, now yellow and delicate.  Who would love that book?  

She was surprised, then, to hear Io's voice from a door she had just passed.  As the memories peeled away she realized she had been reckless, heedless. She turned her back to the wall and peered in the room.  It was dark.  

"Lo..." Io sounded...hurt? They sounded hurt. 

She peered in but didn't enter.

"Help me, Lo."  Io's voice was even quieter now than usual.  But Lo had been taken in before and was not so stupid as Io thought.  She looked both ways down the hall but it was still empty.  Io moaned.  "Lo, I didn't mean for this to happen..."

She squeezed her eyes shut. None of this could be real. She was not here to save Io. She was not here at all.  

She realized Io was weeping.  

"What happened?" She didn't mean for her voice to be so cold but she apparently couldn't help it.  

"They said you'd be safe, Lo. They said they just needed to talk to you."

"Well, I assure you they did not just talk to me. What happened to you?" 

"I fought them when they took you away and...I lost."  Lo couldn't say she was surprised, she could hardly imagine Io a strong fighter.  

"Please, come inside.  They'll find you outside."

Despite a loud voice inside her that told her not to, she slipped inside the dark room. 

"There's a light switch by you."

She turned and used her shoulder to turn the light on.  Io winced when the bright lights came on--they were in a small office type room.  A cheap fake wood desk sat in the center of the room, but Io was crumpled in the corner.  Blood on their face and they were cradling their left arm to their chest.  

Lo couldn't help but come closer.  She hated to see Io in pain.  

Io whispered to her: "I'm sorry.  I'm sorry I picked the wrong side."

Lo just stared at Io.  She wanted to wipe the blood away, to pretend none of this had ever happened. But it did happen. And she knew it happened because her hands were still tied behind her back. 

"I just...I wanted more. They promised me so much and I'm sorry I forgot that we all need to be together, to work together, to dream together. I forgot that we can't be two groups. I forgot that I would lose you if I did this--I thought I could turn you and I was wrong. 

"And I'm so grateful I didn't turn you. I'm so grateful you are stronger than me.  You've always been stronger, Lo, and I always was trying to keep up.  I didn't think they'd actually get violent, Lo, I've never actually known anybody who was violent. I thought it was exaggerated.  I thought it was fake.  I'm so sorry, Lo."

She watched as they closed their eyes, the pain clear on their face. 

"I hear you, Io. But I have work to do now.  Can you help me?"

Io nodded and gestured for her to turn around.  Their gentle fingers started unravelling the knot on her wrist until she felt the bindings loosen. She shook off the memory of all the times they had undressed her from behind, unlatching a bra [i'm not sure i believe in bras existing in this world] or a necklace.  Her hands swung down and her shoulders protested as they resumed their normal position.  She flexed and stretched her fingers.  

"Thank you, Io." She looked toward the door, wondering when they would arrive. 

"They have a device here.  It's a type of broadcaster.  I don't know exactly how it works but something about it makes their...our work easier.  It helps people understand and believe the Delvers are dangerous." 

"You still thin that's true, don't you?"

Io looked directly in her eyes. "You know it's true yourself. Even if you don't agree with us, you know the Delvers are weak and dangerous."

"It doesn't matter what you think and it doesn't matter, particularly, what I think. What I know is the Delvers keep us all moving forward together.

"You don't know what it's been like since you turned.  You don't know hurtful it is to have someone turn away at every turn.  You don't know how much I've been avoiding my onw famiyl and friends.