Lo pulled the hedge clippers out of her bag and released the safety clasp. 

The sky was a curious green she'd heard about from books but never seen herself.  The clouds were heavy and looked almost purple somehow.  

The forest smelled so good.  She stopped for a minute and just sucked air in through her nose.  She had never smelled it this strong before--after the rain it was sometime stronger but this was like the plants themselves were calling out to her to be there to make things right. 

She resumed clipping the wires on the chainlink fence.  Where they'd even found this fence was beyond her--she'd seen it around but it was always ancient and this was new, almost shiny. 

She cut a small hole big enough for her to slip through (though her pack caught on the wires).  As she crossed the barrier she felt the hairs on her body rise, almost as if she had crossed some other kind of boundary.  She felt them watching her. 

She put the wire back in the hole, which seemed incredibly dumb but at a glance it seemed...relatively intact. 

It didn't much matter anyhow. If and/or when they found her, it would be too late, either for them or for her.  

She pushed through the undergrowth of the forest, making a path where there wasn't any.  The tree was about two miles away and although there was plenty of undergrowth there were also buildings and other human-made things kept inside the fence. 

She walked past old apartment buildings, faded into almost colorlessness, some covered in giant bougainvilleas or star jasmines, but mostly they were naked in the darkening air.  She didn't like these uninhabited parts of town and always felt like someone was around who she couldn't see. 

It wasn't totally wrong. She jumped as she heard a familiar whistle from her right.  She looked around, crouching to hide herself in case Jy had turned.  

God, she really couldn't handle it.  She needed all of them.  They all had to survive this together or not at all.  She shook her head--it was a ridiculous thought but it wouldn't leave her alone. 

She crept through the bushes and the whistle sounded again.  She saw Jy move out of cover next to a building and she looked for a long time. 

With Io there had been no sign.  She looked closely at Jy.  They seemed nervous.  They seemed scared.  And then she realized it didn't matter: Without Jy they couldn't sing the song.  They couldn't complete the Action and without the Action they were lost. 

She responded with her own signature whistle and stood up a half foot. Jy whipped around to look for her and smiled when they saw her.  Her legs swung through the brush as she ran, still crouching, to Jy's side.  

They hugged. Jy whispered, "I didn't know if I'd make it through."

Lo didn't say anything. 

She clapped her hands on Jy's shoulders. "Alright, little Jy. Let's find the others and get this done."  They turned back toward the south, knowing the tree was there and they set off. 

---

[Do we need to demonstrate how they all get there? It probably depends on how well we know them all.]

---

The tree was gone. 

The tree was gone.  They had cut down the tree!

How could they have cut down the tree?

She spun in a circle.  There were dozens of trees around but they were young in comparison.  
The corpse of the big tree lay on the ground.  Some of the leaves were still green but it was dying.  It had fallen on the small low building nearby, crushing it under its weight. 

This had to be the tree the magic one had reported.  It looked like the pictures Lo had dug up.  

She ran to the tree and put her hands on the trunk.  A hot energy burned her hands and she whipped them away.  She felt tears and fear building up inside her. 

"It's not fair. It's not right. It wasn't even a good idea! It won't stop us! ANYONE could see that cutting this tree down was the wrong thing to do.  This was the oldest thing left on this earth after the Mourning.  And they know that! They know that!" She screamed at the carcass of the tree and felt her hands start to blister from the heat.  

"Lo."

Jy put their hand on her back.  

"Lo."

They said it again, quietly and she felt the fear draining out of her from the spot on her back where their warm hand rested. 

"Lo, we have to try it anyhow.  We can't bring the tree back."

She nodded. She wanted to sing for this lost tree right now, but she knew there were more urgent matters to attend to.  The Bad Guys were winning.  They were out there right now, having their meetings and planning ways to overthrow us all.  She wanted to tear them apart with her own hands, to use them to fertilize this tree.  And she felt sad for the fact that The Bad Guys were so lost. So hurt that they would do this to a beautiful and ancient tree.  She saw the world from their eyes for a short moment and felt her own emotions lock up.  No one would want to live in that world.  

She slumped to the ground.  She felt leaf litter under her blistered hands.  She felt the wind touching the tears she hadn't realized she let out.  She looked up and saw her people standing around, ready to help.  

"It is the only way. Change is coming." She spoke quietly and they felt briefly afraid of her. "This is the natural order of things; change sets in."

She nodded.  She could see the fear in their eyes but she could also see them setting their resolve, aligning with each other. Getting ready for battle. 

She stood up and brushed the leaves from her knees.  She wiped the tears from her face and reached out to Jy and Su.  

They walked around the stump of the tree, hands outstretched to one another.  The purple clouds overhead flickered with lightning and the wind picked up.  The storm was not natural.  It was the manifestation of the evil that had been living in this tree.  Lo didn't know if the tree had been cut down to stop the evil or if the death of the tree was meant to seal the evil in the world, to give it no escape.  But it didn't matter anyhow.  They would try.

Su started the song, somewhat to Lo's surprise. She had always been the quietest one. 

_Long fibers stretching tall_
_Let us see you grow. Let us see you rise._
_Flat paper leaves that move like blood_
_We let you see us grow. We let you see us rise._

Lo joined in with her, singing the counter words.  
