[con't from 2017.11.28.md]


"You don't know what it's been like since you turned.  You don't know hurtful it is to have someone turn away at every turn.  You don't know how much I've been avoiding my onw famiyl and friends.

Knowing that you were wrong, that you turned away from me when I needed you, I was too embarrassed to tell people. I was too embarrassed and I withdrew into myself.  You know how I get..."

Lo's voice broke off, ragged and filled with a deep sadness.  She had expected rage and energy but now she felt only tired. Only weak.  Only alone. 

"Look, Io, I need your help." She had promised Fi not to use the word alone, to forget the meaning of it.  She was never alone in this world, and never going to be alone.  How could she be alone when the birds all knew her name? "Where's the broadcaster?"

Io was struggling against the pain.  She noticed a large blood stain blooming under their coat, a giant hibiscus on the white cotton.  She realized that Io was hurt much more than she had initially realized. No wonder they didn't stand up, no wornder they couldn't help her more.  She put her hand against their cheek and felt a coldness she wasn't prepared for.  She looked around, surely there was something to stop the bleeding. 

"Lo, I'm sorry.  I wasn't wrong but I'm still sorry."

She found a towel in the corner, ignoring Io's words as much as possible.  She needed to get out of here and she needed to keep Io alive, even if long-term decisions were less clear.  She tore the towel into two pieces, using a small Swiss Army knife she pulled from her pocket. She remembered her grandparent giving her this knife when she was young.  She barely understood what an army was, except for her studies. She pulled Io's shirt away and they groaned.  It looked like a knife wound, maybe. "What happened, Io?"

"When I brought you in they attacked you and took you away from me....They promised me they wouldn't hurt you and I freaked out when they took you.  They beat me and then one of yhem pulled a knife."

"They just left you here?"

"Well they didn't have much nicer plans for you."

She tied the towel around their chest, holding the bulk of it against the wound and pressing hard.  

"Lo, you have to go on without me.  I will probably be fine but I'll definitely be a problem for you."

She felt the hot tears welling in her eyes.  Even after all the bullshit and weirdness she loved Io.  Even though she knew they'd chosen the darkness over her.  Even though even though even though.  

A pair of footsteps sounded in teh hallway striding toward where she'd come from.  They sounded angry--she had forgotten to close the door.  

"Lo, go now while you till can.  The device is huge, find the main room and you can't miss it.  Follow the blue tiles."

_Two lines, one reward._ She still didn't know what it meant. 

She turned in utter fear and went to the door.  She glanced out and seeing that they were still in the freezer, she took a moment to look back at Io and then stole out the door and crept away from the two who were looking for her.  She got to the end of the tunnel and took a quick right--better to be hidden and lost than found. She kept creeping down the hallway, glad for the soft soles of her boots. She willed the seekers away from her, away from Io.  

She realized that there were blue tiles on the floor, and green, and purple.  Some kind of routing to different areas of the building, apparently.  She followed it--down a hall with only a few working lights, linoleum getting dirtier than where she had started.  

There was so much to do that she didn't want to do.  She wanted to stay and finally talk to Io, she wanted to explore this ancient ruin, she wanted to learn what all these strange doors and devices did, but she had one job. 

Stop the jammer.

She heard footsteps behind her and tried a door -- it swung open and she stepped inside and gently closed it.  She fdidn't turn the lights on--just hoped the room was uninhabited.  

She heard the shouting and footsteps pass her in the hallway.  They were calling for help, telling everyone she was missing.  f