[con't from scene with Fi] She knew enough about the time before to know she didn't want that. Not everyone knew or understood the purpose of the Delvers, but Lo did and Lo didn't want everyone else to find out again. 

"Okay, well, I guess...I'm kind of in the middle of a few things but we can at least talk about it a bit more." Truthfully she didn't have much going on at the time. 

Fi glanced at Lo but remembered themselves and glanced away again. "Thank you."  The sound of relief in their voice affected Lo heavily. "I told the Delvers I'd bring you to our local home and they could give you the rest of the information you need.  Can you leave now?"

Lo froze. She'd already had a lot of shocks today. "Fi, could I ask you to wait here while I check in with my friends?"

She stepped out onto the balcony where Su was trying and failing to look nonchalant about the intruder.  Su had always been a prickly one, more independent than the rest of them, and very defensive of the people she loved.  She looked closely at Lo, but Lo just pulled her close for a hug.  

"I'm going to see the Delvers."

Su pulled back to look her in the eyes. "Why the Delvers? Why are they here?"

Lo shook her head. "I'm not sure, but they seem to need a historian. I'm just going to visit the local Well and get the details. I'll be back but I'm wondering if it might not take a day or two.  So I wanted to let you know. Can you tell Io and let them know I'm sorry I didn't stay to say goodbye?"

This scene has lost alllll steam so let's move the fuck on.

---

Lo grabbed her bag from the rack on the back of her bike and nodded to Fi.  The ride had been about three hours and her legs were a bit tired and stiff, but not bad. The nearest well was in an old church, as many of them were.  It was beautiful, really, and very large.  She'd never been inside one of the Wells and 