_What happened to neighborhoods when the cars went away. Everything was far apart, how much work it took to get everything.  they had to mourn the fact that they coudlnt' go to Ikea in Burbank anymore, with an aside about how this was before IKEA became what it is now (mystery!)_

How much they felt like they got trapped in these shitty neighborhoods.  How they eventually realized that this is just their shitty life now.  How much it was like a hurricane but on a grand scale.   

That's when the change happened.

The cars went away gradually at first.  It happened more or less the "free market way" (a concept Lo struggled with in school).  Gas prices kept rising so people started driving less and less. Even the government stockpiles and subsidies weren't enough.  

It was way, way too slow for the polar bears though.  And the ice caps.  All told they estimated that global warming killed some 12,000,000 species.  It was also the end of free market capitalism and fossil fuels.  It was the end of Ferrari and American car culture, for better or worse.  

One of Lo's favorite laments was a threnody, really.  A threnody to the open road.  A threnody to the feeling of an engien shifting beneath you, to the pleasures of getting somewhere at top speed, whenever you wanted to.  Stopping by the side of the road and feeling the rush of the traffic along the freeway behind you.   To be truthful, she found this particular song a bit terrifying but it was also so keening and sad.  

In general she found the old times sad--she watched video clips of movies and the way people were pushed aside during a foot chase or cars were just thrown off a cliff with no regard for the occupants just because they weren't the star--it gave her a dark chill. 

But anyway, back to the history: 

People started driving less and less and then out of the blue there just wasn't any more gas, at least not in America. They had kept the secret very well.  One day the gas station owners were expecting a delivery and it just wouldn't come.  Depending on where you were in the supply chain you may have gotten an extra couple weeks but most of the small towns in the middle of America ran out first.  Nobody in the large cities paid much attention at first so they weren't any more prepared when their own end came.  In about three weeks it was over. 

Some large companies still had stockpiles for their fleets, so for a while business was stronger than ever. But realistically it was a short term solution and then it turned into a nationwide disaster. 

The effects they had been watching after hurricanes and earthquakes were suddenly nearby.  It was like they had been practicing for this. 

It wasn't terribly exciting, for the most part.  People died from pretty boring things: Old food they shouldn't have eaten.  A fall they didn't really recover from.  Not enough water.  The small towns were a mix of hard hit and just fine--depending on what they produced for the greater economy.  The American nation was a very large but tenuously connected road and without trucks to bring food and supplies, many of these small places disappeared.  Songs were written but most of those were known only to specialists.  You could find them inscribed in the sidewalks of these old places, or written inside of the old Walmarts--the ones in the Walmarts tended to be best preserved though it was hard to find them written along a wall or down the middle of an aisle. 

Certain neighborhoods and towns did better, but it was a bad time.  That's when it all really came to a head. 

It had been several hundred years but the scars of the old world hadn't healed completely.  The old roads were still in use.  Once the catastrophe part had stabilized, many neighborhoods had started decorating and building in their roads--leaving lanes for bicycles but filling in with trees, rose bushes, storage sheds, ponds.   

Of course many neighborhoods were abandoned.

The freeways were abandoned or converted as well.  They were so excruciating to walk along, all cement and straightlines, that nobody wanted to.  In some cities they were covered in graffiti and art but even those neighborhoods grew bored of them and moved away.  Some turned into parks.  Many of them became something like a river floating over head, dangerous but useful. 

---

_The way the lessons from the Great Mourning are immortalized in songs now, so she knows them. And maybe she's just part of a cult? Rather than this being teh same as everything._

Her music studies were going well, she thought to herself.  Not everyone would have been able to learn all these songs the way she had, mostly out of books and going to weird events where other music nerds would gather. 

She toyed with her dinner, a particular song stuck in her head: 

_Needing is one thing, and getting /
getting's another_

It was an old song.  It was from before and had nothing to do with anything else, but it's stuck in our writer's head and feels relevant. 

She had been specializing in the songs of extinction, lately.  There was an older person in town who got together with people once a month to sing those songs, songs of rage and fear and loss about the last elm tree, about the lost stripes of the tiger, about all the dead koalas.  The deeper you went the more you got into small creatures: The disappearance of the Rio Grande Silvery Minnow, the battles against the zebra mussels and lion fish as they devoured ecosystems whole.  Bananas actually had an entire subgenre about them--songs about identical creatures being identically vulnerable, about banana splits.  One about the old joke about banana peels being slippery made her laugh particularly hard. 

At the church, they sang together.  They couldn't bring books or written versions of the songs from the library to the church, so when she found a new one at the library she was compelled to learn it herself, singing it over and over at home and on her bike until she could bring it to them.  Ml knew a lot of the songs and could help her when she fumbled. 

It was lovely, really, the singing of these songs together.  The churches were so resonant, absolutely the right place for singing of any kind, and the light streamed in on them.  Many weeks they wept together at the end.  


At the end of the recent session, as Lo sat and dried her face, Ml said to them: "This is why we sing.  We can't forget the pain.  And the music carries it to us, fresh as the day it was born. And we also have to remember how we handle the pain matters.  It matters to let it flow through us. The pain will always win if we don't let it flow."

She nodded. Her shoulders slumped and she felt tired.  The group of singers had gathered around her in silence, as they always did when someone was suffering extra. 

It was wise.  But it was hard.  

---

I want to write at length about what the climax is here. 

Lo has found some information that not everyone can access.  This information is very important and very dangerous.  I'm not sure yet if it's dangerous to Lo and her crew or if it's dangerous to an outside entity.  

Let's brainstorm about outside entities that could be harmful but are not human: 

No, wrong question. 

We already have these on-theme monsters: 

Monsters in gardening include: 
* Animals that eat everything
* Poisons
* Drought
* Mold
* Bugs 
* Floods/natural disasters
* People stealing or disrupting your harvest
* Invasive species 
* Catastrophic earth events (meteors, global warming)

Monsters in history include: 
* Mold
* Decay
* Loss
* Disruptive events that destroy records
* Disinterest
* Fallibility of memory
* War 
* Illiteracy

A list of ideas: 
* The Great Mourning caused us to revert to illiteracy from a belief that spoken word cultures were more sustainable
* The patriarchy is hidden in the tree. (lulz at that sentence but let's roll with it). Some kind of pattern or habit or something is exposed in the vision of the tree and it unleashes some of our bad patterns back on us (thinking here of the "sustainability of patriarchy" from Cynthia Enloe)
* People are just different from each other and this utopia is bound to have dissenters. I just don't want to present a visionary future that is the kind of utopia you can't help but destroy (which is what i'm experiencing right now).  
* * How do they do it on Star Trek? That's a visionary society.  Everybody in the Federation is committed wholeheartedly to the ideals of the Federation--but the ideals are difficult to uphold and there are external enemies who don't care at all/maybe even hate the Federation. 


Okay so maybe the idea is that humanity has come together.  

Then a threat from somewhere else appears--could be an alien, could be a weird apparition from the past (I THINK WE KNOW WHICH ONE IS A WINNER) but it does NOT like what is going on and wants to push us into a different habit.  Some people fall prey to it, others resist strongly. 

OKAY I AM LIKING THIS. 

