Let's talk about how Lo gets to the place of the villain speech (2017.11.04.md).

Two lines, one reward. 

I don't know what that means but here I am. 

She was scared. It seemed she was always scared these days, locked in this battle and barely able to look up and see the world. 

_Two lines, one reward_. 

That's what the pale man had whispered to her right before he left.  It didn't seem related to any part of her work but he said it. 

And defeating him was the key. 

And she knew, as well, that whatever he said to her was to lead her a certain way.  

She had come out to the lake, based on what she had seen on the old maps.  There should be a big building here.  It was an old airline hangar, from when they used to have planes around.  She could hardly imagine it, though she'd seen footage of it.  They sang songs about it every so often, their lost ability to fly and how they would never regain it. How they would fight not to regain it, not like that.  

She parked her bike under a tree. She patted the tree and walked to the water.  It was a nice lake, sort of a kidney shape.  The water was calm today, a blue sky with picturesque clouds, but the wind was very cold.  She pulled off a mitten and put her hand into the very edge of the water, boots planted firmly on the rock shoreline.  The water was cool and refreshing. 

This is why she was here.  She was here to remember the beauty of this world and to protect it from the Bad Guys.  

"Lo."

It was no big surprise to hear Io's voice behind her, but it still hurt her to realize that all she suspected was true.  As always they spoke her name with that intimate concern, that connection they had always had.  

She stayed squatting at the edge of the water.  This was the end, of everything, perhaps, and nothing would likely be the same again.  She gazed across the mirror surface of the water, reflecting the yellow needles of the birch trees and the distant mountain.  The ripples from her fingers touching the surface were still smoothing themselves on the end of the lake.  She remembered being a small child, seeing the ripples from rocks they tossed in, and asking her parents about ripples. She remembered the peculiar ripples at the spring, caused from water rising out of the earth itself.  She touched the surface one more time and stood. 

(Note: foreshadowing here for the waves of the singing, and teh small touch making a big impact. Sorry current reader but them's the breaks.)

She felt in her heart the same love for Io she'd always known, and felt also the darkness that had fallen across them all since the tree broke open.  She felt the weeping that had taken them out of their normal lives, the rage, the fear.  

She knew it had been there all along. 

She turned to face Io and they were there in front of her.  The building was visible over their shoulder, covered in ivy.  She didn't speak. There was no need to speak--they each knew why the other was here. 

"Let me cook you some food."

Io turned and she followed them, watching the breeze play in their hair. 

The outside of the building was covered in ivy.  She wondered if anybody had known where this was until Io and the Bad Guys had found it--it was very different from what she expected.  Two pine trees flanked the door. Io opened the door--a newly installed door in an ancient building. The steel lock and door knob gleamed. 

Two lines, one reward.  

Inside there was a lot of metallic clanging.  She hadn't been able to hear it outside; the building must be insulated or sound proofed.  It was dark, but bright lights aimed at the door disoriented her; she could feel her pupils contract against them.  She could see two lines on the floor leading away from her--like guidelines through the maze of machinery.  She suddenly smelt something pungent under the oil. 

[She wakes up later in an industrial kitchen, that's when the villain speech comes in.]
---





--


TODO: Write about the social technology that holds this all together. It's obviously tied up in the singing, meditating, and maybe something else. There's a strain of some magic, maybe, with the delvers.  OH 

TODO: Write about the Delvers. 

TODO: Write about the deep wound of vulnerability from oversharing and connecting with others. Vulnerability hangovers. 

