TODO: Write about the social technology that holds this all together. It's obviously tied up in the singing, meditating, and maybe something else. There's a strain of some magic, maybe, with the delvers.  

The Great Mourning finally took both sides of the political divide.  

It took awile for the young people to be tired enough. Instead of the ongoing refreshing energy from the young people, they were tired. Everyone was tired. Nobody was encouraging anybody to do anything.  They stopped reading the news. 

This is not working for me today. 

---

So you're one of the Delvers. 

Fi nodded. Lo tried to keep a presentable face.  The Delvers made her a bit uncomfortable, sort of a wish to be more like them and also knowledge that they led a very different life from the rest of us. They were important and powerful and weird as fuck. 

The Delvers were a highly specialized group of people who inherited the highest levels of knowledge around the stability technologies, and in some way were responsible for maintaining them. During the Great Mourning, or rather immediately after, and for several hundred years, humanity had recalibrated, somewhat organically towards kindness, survival, and prosperity on a biological level, rather than towards progress in a capitalist sense.  Science was still important but rather than trying to find an enzyme to dissolve the last bits of fossil fuels from their traps underground, a lot of science turned toward how to be better people.  What they learned was that in large part there were certain technologies that helped people align with each other, increased empathy, and generally made the species more stable.  They studied bees and other colony-based animals.  Bees did not, generally fight amongst themselves.  (We will skip, for now, the protracted battles over whether or not humans were meant to be separated into levels, to say only that the answer was no.)

The Delvers knew a lot of things that Lo did not about singing and how and why they sang so much.  The Delvers also had slightly different nervous systems tha the rest of the species--they tended to be more sensitive to physical stimuli, with very large eyes.  Nothing you might notice on the street, but when you saw a group of them together, there was something extraordinarily beautiful about the experience--serene beings with their big, shining eyes, watching all as they moved and making small adjustments to keep everyone aligned.  A smile here, a helping hand, and something Lo couldn't quite explain.  They didn't *speak* to you in your mind, not exactly, but something about them helped her feel calm.  [What she doesn't know but I don't want to forget is that thing that people can do with the sympathetic nervous system.  Essentially they're able to modulate other people's emotions through very advanced levels of what we already do: breath control, pupil dilation, pulse rate, and perhaps something a bit magical.  Maybe chemicals or homones they can choose to release.] That's why they were called Delvers--it was like they could reach inside you and find what they were looking for. 

Delvers were chosen at childbirth and trained in secluded facilities off in the wilderness.  It was an honor to give birth to one, and when the training was done they would come back to live in the community they came from, for the most part.  And they led many of the bigger songs with the community, deciding when and where it would happen.  They were known to stand on the street corner and sing long songs about something happening in the community--about the work that goes into keeping the street clean and neat, about a parent caring for a child, or a child caring for a parent, about long lost mournings from that part of the world.  Not everyone stayed to watch, but Lo frequently did, as part of her general studies. 

As a kid she'd been frustrated that she hadn't been chosen as a Delver (no doubt the cause of her unease as an adult though I'm not sure we need to say that right at this moment).  She loved music and singing so much, and the Delvers knew all the songs.  Her parents were always having to drag her off from watching them as they sang, carrying her in their arms as she cried--cried until the Delvers invariably did their thing and helped her calm down.  But it was one of the few walls she had in her life--the feeling of separation from the Delvers.  When she first went to school, her teacher asked her about her dreams for her life and she said matter of factly that she'd like to be a Delver when she grew up.  The teacher had laughed, which made the other kids laugh, and Lo was embarrassed without knowing why. 

That night her parents sat her down and explained about the Delvers, that she was too late to go, they only take babies and they didn't take her.  She heard them but resolved privately to make them take her.  She'd learn fast.  She sang well already.  

But, as we can all tell, they never came for her. As she got older she came to understand that they had physical abilities she did not--and she also learned that in many ways to be a Delver was to live a role of service your entire life.  You didn't get to have a family, or lovers--at least not the way anybody else did.  And you were responsible for the emotions of so many, many people.  

So, she became an amateur historian of the music and the songs. She taught them in her spare time [TODO: Do any of them have jobs and if so, what are they?] She wrote books about them.  

ANYWAY back to the story: The redhead waited for her to speak.

"You have a story from the past for me?"

Fi opened their mouth but did not speak.  They had yet to make eye contact with Lo and it made Lo a bit anxious. "Yes, I do. I was alone and discovered something strange. Something bad."

"Why not take it to your people?"

"I did. They felt sure we could handle it and I don't agree.  I wouldn't leave them alone with it and so they sent me to you to find out more." 

[LO IS ON A MISSION FROM THE DELVERS WHO REJECTED HER, YES!]

Lo nodded, trying to keep her face neutral. "Okay, tell me what you need from me."

Fi took a sip of tea and looked out the window.  Lo felt herself grow calm, something she resisted a bit but found difficult to shake off. Delvers help everyone feel better but not many have friends because it's weird that your friend can make you feel a certain way without your consent.   Lo gave up and went with it.  She did feel better. 

"Okay.  A few nights ago I was at the old springs at Usuyyn, are you familiart?" Lo nodded.  "I go there a lot, it helps me remember what this place has been through and it keeps my delving sharp. Plus it's quiet and I don't have a lot of people to worry about." The delver looked a bit embarrassed by that confession.

"Anyway, the last few times I've been there, there's been something...off about the whole thing.  It's felt bad and dangerous, and I haven't been able to find the source. I've asked around if anybody had a bad experience there and no one would admit to even going there--and there's not...  Well anyway I just don't think it's a recent thing, regardless [note to self: how to write a scene where someone interrupts themselves before divulging a secret].  So I was sitting under that big tree, if you're familiar...?"

Lo knew the tree--it was one of the nearest artifacts from before the Great Mourning.  She had written about it in a book for the neighborhood. [NOTE: Do the Delvers control the production of media? Do they censor things to make sure everything is okay and going to keep us on the right track? ]

"Did they send you because of my book?"

Fi shrugged. "They do things for lots of reasons but rarely share them with me."  They paused. 

Lo looked at them expectantly. "So. The tree?"

Fi swished the cooling tea in their mug. "The tree."

Their big eyes caught Lo off-guard when they looked directly at her.  She realized they hadn't made eye contact the whole time.  

The jolt of fear and isolation that washed over Lo when Fi looked directly at her was so unexpected that Lo burst into tears. The powerful sense of longing, loneliness, hatred, violence, and dissonance that flooded Lo was like nothing she had ever seen. She heard the angry voices of people fighting with each other, screaming in pain, war cries. No. She heard a single voice screaming with an unholy power, a sound made by the fearless, the deathless, the defiant.  The voices were cacophonous, disgusting to her, against everything in her body and soul.  This was not the way humans were meant to live. 

Fi looked away immediately and Lo felt the unreasonable onslaught stop.  The voices disappeared like changing the station of a radio [Does Lo know what or how a radio is/does?] but the feelings remained.  She discovered tears on her cheeks and her tea cup had been knocked over, tea streaming to the kitchen floor.  Fi reached out to her and placed a clean hand on her arm.  She felt the emotions start to fade as well, as if a narcotic were calming her. Fi kept their eyes turned and made a quiet singing hum uner their breath until Lo's pulse finally returned to normal and her breathing calmed.  Her hands were still trembling--there was little Fi could do about all the adrenaline that situation had released into Lo's body. They could do a lot to calm but the body still had to process those chemicals and when the heart wasn't racing it left the hands to do the dirty work.  

After a long silence, Lo stood and took the overturned teacup to the kitchen. She set it in the sink and leaned against it.  The distance reduced the dreamlike effect induced by the Delver, though the dissonance between her body's obvious stress symptoms and her mind's calmness remained. 

She cleared her throat. "What did you just do to me?" 

Fi's voice was glassy.  "That was what I got from the tree."

"What do you mean you got it from the tree?"

"I was under the tree, like I often am for my Recharge.  And I've always felt like that tree was special and a bit odd.  It's wise and has looked over us as we make all our changes." Lo could tell Fi was hiding something about the tree, maybe it has something to do with Delver business, but it was clear the Delvers would keep their own secrets as long as they pleased.  She turned back to Fi and crossed her arms as she waited.  

"I was there and I just suddenly got this flash of the feeling I just shared with you.  It frankly scared the shit out of me. I haven't been allowed to go out Delving since because they're worried I'll push the wrong things out...anyway I felt that and I dug my fingers into the ground there. I was trying to see if I could delve the Tree."

"The tree? Is that a thing?" 

"I really shouldn't tell you much about it but if you come to meet the others you can learn more. Just trust me, for the moment." They breathed in. "So I delved the tree and I learned many terrible things that have happened near that tree but I also found a little surprise in that tree. I don't understand what it is or why it's there, but I know people died to prevent it being there...and people died to make sure it stayed there." 

"What is it you want from me?"

"The Delvers know you are strong, and a good singer. They know you know a lot about this tree, and about history.  They think you can find out what has happened to that tree."

"That's it? The Delvers have a research project for me?" Lo found it unlikely they'd be summoning her to Delver HQ for a little library work they could do.  

"Well...I think I broke it. I think the thing in the tree hasn't encountered an intelligence in a very long time and I think I somehow set it free. After the cacophony I had this vision [descripion elsewhere].  THe tree was on fire and not on fire.  I mean, it's still there. It's unburned.  But I could see all of it as if I were right there.  And then that night we saw a beam of energy breaking out of the tree and headed straight to the sky--and then it turned and went out in all directions."

"And?" 

"And I'm worried it went somewhere."

"No offense, Fi, but I'm not a big fan of your kind. I mean, I'm glad your around and all but I'm a bit confused why they would wnat a normal person to do this for them.  You're the _Delvers_."

"We....I don't think we can handle this situation on our own.  I..." 

Lo had never seen a Delver weep before, not like this.  They always had the iron core of their training, or their serentiy or whatever it was they learned to do.  So the weeping seemed sort of cosmic. This weeping seemed deeply personal, and Fi seemed afraid. 

"I can't look at people anymore. You felt what happened.  That's what happens to all of us. We've sent three others and they all came back...broken."

Why not you? 

"I...I think the tree protected me.  The tree is good, whatever else is happening it's seen many things and through it all it's been benevolent toward us.  And I can tell that, I can be protected by it.  But even with that I'm no good any more.  I can't delve.  We can't have this in the world. We need the Delvers."

The idea of all the Delvers falling sick, or whatever you would call it, turned Lo's stomach.  THey couldn't survive that.  
---

Here are some more thoughts about the Delvers: 

They're essentially a network of cells of Delvers who have been trained centrally to uphold certain types of values and behaviors--they're a benevolent organization that is perhaps a bit too strict about what they disallow, but they're very contextually sensitive and local.  There is not a lot of national/international media except for what is put out by/approved by the Delvers. But they are also vulnerable as the local Delvers are just people and can't necessarily do it all. It's not a particularly authoritarian organization--it's very networky and distributed--but the standards and values are centralized. 

Do the Delvers wear sunglasses to protect the populace when they are feeling their own emotions so that folks don't get stray bad feels? 

Certain delvers have particular sensitivities -- like Fi is good with plants.  

TODO: Does the Dark Cult have an ongoing protection of the tree? I already killed Raul who put the thing there but he could also conceivably tell the padres he wants to stay and start his own sleeper network to protect the tree--raising his boys and recruiting others who push out the women keepers of the tree? And maybe that order is still around.

TODO: We have a very compelling problem for Lo to solve. We need a conflicting desire.  Ther'es something there with the fact that she hates/envies the Delvers, but is it enough? Is it enough that you have to help the people who didn't think you were special enough as a child?  Does she prove her value in the final tree scene? Is this how she gains the weird title King of All Birds?  I think she gets the title sooner but when she fixes the tree situation she actually kind of breaks the Delvers, somehow.  She makes a new social structure or convinces them that everyone needs what they have. The Delvers need Lo to succeed, but they also are threatened by the way she resolves it. Lo knows she has to save the world and is interested in the particular problem.  

TODO:  THe original coffee man is a delver who gets corrupted and begins corrupting other delvers because the techniques of the Delvers are useful in bad ways too. 

TODO: THe Delvers Leadership are aware of all this fucked up shit going on but only vaguely--weakness of a network like this--and that's why they bring in Lo.  They actually already know she will threaten them and will threaten society but the Bad Guys are worse.  (Are the Bad Guys partially motivated by their lost childhoods and lives of servitude? At least, does the vibe get to them?)

TODO: What about Lo is a problem for them? It could be that she *was* special and for that reason they rejected her.  Maybe there was a prophecy about her.  She is too introverted and not natively interested in being in community so they didn't think she would be good enough.  Her parents hid her from the Delvers as an infant but she is super powerful.  What is the future she brings about? If we know how she brings about a new future, we can learn what it is about her that brings it to happen.  I think it also has be related to her conficting desire.  

Lo desires to help the Delvers because she knows it will keep the whole world safe, but she suspects something dark at the heart of the Delvers--that they are hiding lots of feelings from everyone else.  Lo desires to help the Delvers because the Bad Guys are threatening her friends and family and life, but she has always been resistant to the powers of the Delvers (not completely immune, just more aware of the mind control aspects than other people) and isn't 100% into the Delvers being the bosses. Lo desires to help the Delvers but believes the tools and songs of the Delvers should be for everyone.  Lo wants to help the Delvers but knows that the Delver system of taking babies is unfair and cruel to the children and their families--she saw a woman weeping and screaming when her child was taken from her (when Lo was five or six) and it was the only time she'd seen someone that scared and angry in her entire life.  

Maybe it's just that Lo wants to help the Delvers because the Delvers are an important part of the society Lo loves and values, but the Delvers are maybe not the best for everyone. 