The next day she tried to visit the tree and found the fence locked. 


Write about how they locked it up and kept it locked up--this is the forest they are hiding from her. 



THINGS THAT GOT LOST: 

_The history of the tree, the way the strangeness of the tree in its context obscured from her that true strangeness about it.  Something is hiding in this tree and she needs to know what.  (Alternatively she gets offed and somebody else figures it all out.)_

She felt stupid for not noticing before, the obvious strangeness of this tree.  But she also knew that the tree had been strange to her for years, and strange to others before. 

She had always found it strange to see this massive ancient creature in the middle of the city, and she knew that it had likely survived even the Great Mourning, the Great Mourning that had taken out entire species, this tree had lived.  

She thought back to the men who had planted it here--the old Spanish missionaries.  It hurt her a bit to think of it, but she took a breath and accepted that the painful thing had happened and could not un-happen.  It was a fundamental teaching: things cannot un-happen. 

She thought of them arriving from Baja California, with wagons and burros, across the arid coastline.  Finding the people here and finding their sacred spring and planting this tree here then.  

Even as a symbol of conquest the tree was beloved because trees are beloved.  And so the invader remained, a strange and massive reminder of the disruption of the Europeans coming to the Americas.  

It grew, and grew.  The water of the sacred spring bubbled up and fed the tree with its clear water.  The roots of the tree spread out into the ponds of the spring, protected and living together with wild calla lillies and reeds.  It grew and grew and the strangeness of it obscured its deeply held secret.  But now she knew it.  And she knew it would save them all.  Somehow.

[chapter break]

[A few meta thoughts as we begin: The tree may in fact be from another planet/culture/civilization.  The tree may be physically hiding something.  And the tree may be false--may be the secret will help the other side but our protagonist is unable to see it because she is so committed to plants and nature.  A Trojan horse ish thing.]





---

Su riding a motorcycle to get to the library. She takes the freeway because it's less obvious. She loves riding. Describe the beautiful day she experiences.  She sees a car ahead and gets spooked. Only the gov't uses cars now and only for ceremonial purposes.  She tails them, watches them park it under a tree and start walking away. TOwards the library. 

---

The way the lessons from the Great Mourning are immortalized in songs now, so she knows them. And maybe she's just part of a cult? Rather than this being teh same as everything. 

--

What happened to neighborhoods when the cars went away. Everything was far apart, how much work it took to get everything.  they had to mourn the fact that they coudlnt' go to Ikea in Burbank anymore, with an aside about how this was before IKEA became what it is now (mystery!) 

How much they felt like they got trapped in these shitty neighborhoods.  How they eventually realized that this is just their shitty life now.  How much it was like a hurricane but on a grand scale.   

That's when the change happened. 