A costly mistake. 

Fi seethed as they walked down the hall to fetch the files.  It wasn't fair that they were alsways treating her like a servant. It wasn't fair that they had been here so long and never been welcomed into the council.

They walked down the hall without thinking, heading straight to the Archives.  Normally if a Delver met another Delver, they would either seal off their emotions or the two Delvers would pause to help the angry one reach a type of equilibrium--but since the incident at the tree, they hadn't been able to do either with her so this Delver at the archives simply avoided eye contact and disappeared into the stacks. 

Fi used to love the archives.  The wood paneling on the wall was warm, and it was so quiet there.  They used to go look at all the botany books the Delvers kept on hand--it wasn't a college library or anything but they needed books to teach the children until they were ready to move into the world.  And Fi learned the names of all the plants around her, and then they learned the names of all the plants they had in the books.  They read books about the historical uses of plants, about ethnobotany, about food and medicine uses.  It was a good place but once she was old enough they asked her not to come to the Archives for pleasure anymore. 

Just another example of how they didn't really think she had much to offer.  But this time was different. Fi had always known they were special and had mostly beeen content to let the other Delvers ignore her--the plants were there for her.  They didn't notice how verdant the gardens Fi tended were. Always it was a good growing season and Un never noticed that Fi was the one constant--even in years of bad weather, floods or droughts, she could grow a decent crop.  But because she wasn't as good with people as with plants they found her just barely tolerable. 

The Archivist returned and handed the file over to Fi without looking at her.  She took the file, feeling her resolve stiffen as she walked back down the hall. She would solve this problem and they'd have to see her value.  She would do it or she would never come back here. 

---

A fight breaks out

Okay, we need a fight or revelation between Lo and Io.  I don't know how to get there but if there's anything I know, it's that stability is an illusion.  Change is everpresent. Even when there is equilibrium it is ever shifting, and a push too far can take everything from great to disaster.  So let's do this. 


Io had been spending more time out of the house, but Lo had only recently started to notice.  She was so busy with the problem with the Delvers, and Io was so self-sufficient and independent that it hadn't seemed to be a problem.  

What Lo doesn't know is that Io has been hanging out with the Pale Man, who has been both vocally expressing some subversive and dangerous ideas and also emotionally manipulating Io with his Delver skills. 

*What are the subversive and dangerous ideas espoused by the bad guys? What is their manifesto?*

We are the Bad Guys, and if you don't find that funny, fuck you, we're laughing regardless. 

We believe that humans are a competitive and combative species, and that we are denying an important part of what it means to be human when we allow the Delvers to control our feelings. 

We believe that the Delvers are a bunch of manipulative fakers who pretend to have the interests of all humanity at heart but instead are merely seeking power and control. 

We are here to liberate humanity. We are here to help humanity feel the full range of their emotions: Not just the positive, pollyannaish utopian feelings, but also the feelings of rage and jealousy.  We believe it is important to acknowledge and honor the origins of our species and to finally express the fullness of our power. Keeping these feelings bottled in makes them even more dangerous and people need an outlet for their less positive feelings.

We are fatalistic, we are meant to die and be forgotten. 

*Manifesto of the Delvers* (possibly a speech that is given to the classes at the Well, or perhaps in the book to Lo) (maybe Fi shares it with Lo against orders.  It's the Oath of the Nightswatch, but secretive. So Fi can recite it.): 

Long ago the world fell into the Great Mourning. And as we mourned together we learned that humans were stronger together, and that we needed to learn more about how to achieve peace, to actively work towards peace, which meant that we needed to change our nature. 

We learned that behavior can guide emotions, and we developed a guardian class to help us learn and perpetuate the behaviors that helped us be our best selves.  We are the Delvers.  We read the signs, we moderate, we facilitate, we sing. We bring humanity together to be its best self, so that we might live until the heat death of the sun.  We sacrifice our own lives so that others may live better.  We are the openers of the heart, the soothers of the soul, the drainers of the poison. 

---

Io came in late that night.  Lo had been working on a song most of the day; her voice was tired and she had a mug of herbal tea clasped at her heart.  More than her voice was tired--she was tired.  She had been working so hard and they were stuck.  She was tired of hearing the reports of the Bad Guys causing trouble.  She was tired of having to spend so much time moderating her own emotions--it takes time to meditate, to exercise, and she didn't want to spend the time on it. 

Truth be told she hadn't been getting enough sleep.  It was almost confession worthy, to deny the need for sleep, but she also could fake it just enough.  She could stay up a touch later and get up a touch earlier and get a bit more work done. 

She'd sleep when they solved it.  She knew that Fi would be mad at her--mad that she was being careless when it mattered so much, but she also knew she needed to solve this soon.  She could feel the balance of the scales slipping--she could feel the world sliding toward the Bad Guys, slowly at first and more quickly over the past few days.

The mug felt good against her--she could tell her body wasn't doing a good job of regulating her temperature, a sure sign she wasn't sleeping enough.  The house was quiet around her and the noise of the door flying open caught her off guard--she normally would have noticed Io's footsteps.  She realized that she hadn't even known Io was out.  Still the behaviors were a bit strange--Io didn't usually act so careless with the door, and they laughed a bit at her when they noticed Lo sitting on the couch. 

"Hi".  Lo's statement wasn't far from a question, though she knew it was on her that she didn't know where they'd been. 

"Lo." Io stumbled over the shoes in the door and dropped [something]. 

Was Io...was something wrong? She put her tea mug down. "Are you....are you okay?"

Io just laughed, the sound a bit slurred and indistinct. Lo's heart beat faster--she wondered if they were sick or something.  There was no reason she could think of that Io would be acting like this.   

"Loooooo."  They stretched her name out in that way...that way they used to do when they would fight in high school.  Io knew that Lo hated it and she couldn't remember the last time it had happened. She suddenly knew what was happening, though she hadn't seen anybody drunk in her lifetime.  She remembered a scene from an old movie when someone came in drunk and it all matched: the clumsiness, the slurring.  And the cantankerousness. 

"Lo, little one.  How's your little project going?"

She didn't say anything and Io just got angrier.

"You know you're not going to get anywhere."

"Where did you even find alcohol?"

"Don't matter. We're going to win, you know."

"Who? What are you even talking about?"

"The Bad Guys. We're totally going to win.  It's not hard when you just want to let people be themselves."

Lo backed up into the coffee table--she felt her body fly into a fear response, her energy suddenly very high, her knees bent and her eyes unable to see details only broad strokes.  This had to be....it had to be a joke right? 

"Io. What are you saying?"

"Aw, I'm just fuckin' with you, Lo. Just fooling around." 

"Why would you say that?"

"I dunno, Lo." They barked a harsh laugh at her.  "Let's go to bed."

She looked at Io from the corner of her eye.  "Okay, let's."  She guided them to the bed and they laid down fully clothed. She pulled their shoes off, and pulled a blanket over them.  

Something was very, very wrong.  She couldn't believe that Io was one of the Bad Guys but nothing about this was normal. 

---

The next morning Io slept til noon.  Lo went to Su's place after breakfast.  Her home was a tidy Victorian, mostly purple with some yellow and blue trim, a sunny spot in a neighborhood that was mostly overgrown.  Su's lawn was well kept, standing out as a spot of calm amidst the tangle of wilderness around.  She threw her bike against the porch wall and knocked. 

"Hey, Lo, what's up?"

"Do you have a minute?"

"Sure, come on in. I'm just doing some laundry." 

Lo entered and inhaled the warm scent of clean laundry.  Su's house was always so clean and calm it made her a touch envious. 

"So, what's up? I'll get you some water."

Lo didn't really feel comfortable talking about it.  What if she'd imagined it all? And, she realized the real fear: What if Su had turned too? Lo wasn't sure what she would do if her two best friends had both gone bad.  

But she also knew she couldn't move forward not knowing.  She had to take the risk. 

"Io is...something strange happened last night."

Su waited, in her practical and stern way. 

"They came home late last night and...I think they were drunk."

Su's eyes opened wider but she remained quiet. 

"They were...slurring and stumbling and..."

The fear settled in her stomach and she nearly couldn't say what she thought.  But she knew also that if it settled enough, she'd never get the words out.  So she rushed to it: 

"They ... they acted like they are one of the Bad Guys."

"What the fuck." Su's voice was perfectly still, almost glassy. 

Lo fumbled through the story: Io's drunken behavior, belligerence, intimidation, and then finally that weird little sentence: "We're going to win you know."

"And then I put them to bed and they fell asleep and as far as I can tell haven't been up since."

They sat together in silence.  Lo's stomach continued to churn, as she waited to find out what Su was thinking.  

It was a long wait until Su got up and stormed downstairs without a word. Lo waited a few seconds and then followed.  As she descended the stairs, she could hear soft padded thwacks and low grunts.  

She reached the basement and found Su punching a padded bag.  She didn't stop as she spoke to Lo, ragged from exertion but as cold and controlled as Lo had ever seen her be.  

"They can't have Io.

"They can't fucking have Io.

"Io was the nice one. The sweet one. Io was yours. 

Lo didn't know what to say but she felt the tears start to flow down her cheeks as she listened to Su's quiet voice. The sound of her fists pattered throughout the basement.  

Lo slumped against the support pole next to her.  She hadn't been willing or able to actually make the jump to the thought that Io might not be hers anymore.  She felt a flood of memories enter her: When they met, their first kiss, the time they fostered a kitten for a month.  Io had been always her quiet ally, her support in tough times. Io read poems to her every time the new moon came and cooked dinner. 

She didn't know how long she was there or when Su stopped punching.  She felt Su sit next to her and wrap her arms around her.  The relief that Su hadn't turned contrasted so much with the pain of Io's defection that she gasped as if she'd been thrown into a pool of cold water on a hot day. 

"Lo."

She tried to get her breathing under control.

"Lo, we need to finish the song.  It's the only way we can have any chance to get Io back."

Su. Su always with her pragmatism, her direct focus.  Su who loved Io almost as long as Lo had.  Su.  Su was always going to be the one to pull Lo out of this.  Only Su had the emotional stamina for this.  Lo felt so much gratitude to have her. 

She took a long deep breath, and felt a fresh wave of tears.

"Su, I can't. I can't do this without Io. Where will I live?"

"Shhh. Lo, we need to finish the song.  We need to finish the research.  We need to do it. 

TODO: Write about Io & Lo from before.  