She needed to learn to control her rage. 

But everytime she contained it she only felt the pressure grow.  And the rage would grow with it. 

She felt an obsessive need to be better, to prove herself, to know that she was better than these...

She caught herself.  That was where they got their foothold. 

Everyone has strengths and weaknesses.  It's entirely possible Uy was smarter and stronger than her in all ways, but it didn't matter. 

And that was what distinguished them from the humans who came before.  She closed her eyes.  She took a deep breath.  She let the thoughts drain from her, imagined them sliding away from her like water, dripping off her chin and running down the back of her head.  

TODO: Finish meditation scene. 

---

The tipping point. The tipping point. The tipping point. 

They had given up on the tipping point eventually.  The human race, it seemed, was a crescent moon, a rocking chair.  It was a swing and it desired equilibrium and while it could swing wildly it was unlikely to come unmoored off the center bar.  Back and forth, generation upon generation.  Not a cycle just back and forth. 

Could it be a saw?  Could it cut through the basic substance of our lives? 

Or did they just need to move the swings somewhere else.  Put in a new center bar. 

So they started pushing on the foundations. 

There was the Great Mourning and one phase was, of course, rage. 

They had learned to channel their rage.  At first it was just emotional and then it actually became something greater. 

They could focus it and make things happen.  There was a literal energy that came from them and took down their enemies.  

A blast of rage could leave a mind washed clean and pale, a mouth drooling.  It was not permanent but it wasn't too different.  

It was dangerous. 

---

"Well, that's a good story."

Su had always been the skeptical one, so Lo waited for the rest of the snark to land. 

"I mean, it can't be right.  There is no way those three people in that one band could have gotten married and broken up that many times."

"You thought I was full of shit when I told you about all those old car movies, too, but I wasn't."

Su pursed her lips, then shrugged. "Fair. I Didn't believe you then and there really were eight The Fast & The Furious movies."

"And they were good. You didn't believe me on that either."

Lo tapped her pencil on the table.  This is how it went, time and time again.  

Io was in the other room, cleaning the countertops and humming a lovely low melody.  Io's voice distracted Lo frequently. 

TODO: Finish red-head coming in to share the vision.  