In lieu of a character or compelling situation, I investigate the world: 

I want to write visionary fiction.

I envision a world: 

* That has suffered the Great Mourning, a massive species and then human die-off.  But mostly species, experiences, entitlements of hte era that all perished.  Naturally a hashtag arose: #greatmourning2020.  It shortened to #greatmourning then eventually just #mourning.  The resulting period of grief transformed the human animal into a better animal, a wiser animal, a more thoughtful animal.  Communities came together to process and to prevent further die-offs. We mourn the death of puffins. We mourn the death of cars and car culture.  We mourn polar bears and winter.  We mourn Miami Beach and Manhattan. 

* Everyone can and does fix things. Part of me wants 3D printers in every home, like microwaves. 

* The world tends to improve on biology rather than replace. 

* In this world the human body is valued--the need to be physically active, to feel physical pleasure and challenge, are important to us. I think here of the bird people from the end of Seveneves. 

* I do not want to write the book I always write, where the main character is brave, and lonely, and different from everyone, and almost always ends up dying in this isolated state. 

* I don't know if bicycles are around but they might be.

* In this world we do not have superstars. I literally do not know how this works in a compelling fashion. 

* The only conflict I can think of write now is that our hero(in)(e) is a historian who wants to know about the Great Mourning.  OR perhaps just a historian/academic in some sense and there's a mystery there to be solved.  I don't know what it is.  I also don't read mystery novels so this should be a real party. 

* There are no genders except for play.  English mutates into a language like Japanese, using very few if any pronouns.  Gender becomes more like a subculture than a demographic (e.g. you can choose to be female the way you can choose to be goth).  Sexuality is fucking awesome in this world because you just get with whoever you want to get with.  I don't know that our bodies have changed all that much but *shrug* maybe. This will be insanely difficult to write given the existing English language (See bullet point above.)

* This world has a whole lot of people in it who disagree on so many many things but not on the basics of kindness & survival & collaboration.  Which is a lot. 

