_What happened to neighborhoods when the cars went away. Everything was far apart, how much work it took to get everything.  they had to mourn the fact that they coudlnt' go to Ikea in Burbank anymore, with an aside about how this was before IKEA became what it is now (mystery!)_





---

I want to write at length about what the climax is here. 

Lo has found some information that not everyone can access.  This information is very important and very dangerous.  I'm not sure yet if it's dangerous to Lo and her crew or if it's dangerous to an outside entity.  

Let's brainstorm about outside entities that could be harmful but are not human: 

No, wrong question. 

We already have these on-theme monsters: 

Monsters in gardening include: 
* Animals that eat everything
* Poisons
* Drought
* Mold
* Bugs 
* Floods/natural disasters
* People stealing or disrupting your harvest
* Invasive species 
* Catastrophic earth events (meteors, global warming)

Monsters in history include: 
* Mold
* Decay
* Loss
* Disruptive events that destroy records
* Disinterest
* Fallibility of memory
* War 
* Illiteracy

A list of ideas: 
* The Great Mourning caused us to revert to illiteracy from a belief that spoken word cultures were more sustainable
* The patriarchy is hidden in the tree. (lulz at that sentence but let's roll with it). Some kind of pattern or habit or something is exposed in the vision of the tree and it unleashes some of our bad patterns back on us (thinking here of the "sustainability of patriarchy" from Cynthia Enloe)
* People are just different from each other and this utopia is bound to have dissenters. I just don't want to present a visionary future that is the kind of utopia you can't help but destroy (which is what i'm experiencing right now).  
* * How do they do it on Star Trek? That's a visionary society.  Everybody in the Federation is committed wholeheartedly to the ideals of the Federation--but the ideals are difficult to uphold and there are external enemies who don't care at all/maybe even hate the Federation. 

Okay so maybe the idea is that humanity has come together.  

Then a threat from somewhere else appears--could be an alien, could be a weird apparition from the past (I THINK WE KNOW WHICH ONE IS A WINNER) but it does NOT like what is going on and wants to push us into a different habit.  Some people fall prey to it, others resist strongly. 

OKAY I AM LIKING THIS. 

