This tree is very old. 

She wonders if this tree lived through the Great Mourning. 

Something no one regrets: Planting the right tree. 

---

She regarded the old tree, not for the first time.  She closed her eyes and felt the roots as they grew out from the small tree into the massive tree it is today.  The branches were not round but were buttressed, like wings out from the trunk.  Knots larger than her head protruded from the trunk, like knuckles on an old human hand.  The roots extended and extended and extended---a  good fifteen feet away you could still find yourself tripping on them. 

The branches were full, the tree was strong. 

---

A villain speech, for giggles: 

"What I'm really trying to say to you, Lo, is that the thing you're looking for isn't here.  There is no magical answer, there is no way through.  

You know the XXXX (device) will get you what you want.  You know where it is and how to use it.  And yet here you sit, sanctimonious and alone."

Lo did feel very alone.  Maybe more alone than she had ever felt.  In this dark, metal place, this cold, loud clanging place, she didn't know if there was anyone else in this world, even though she could remember walking through the door. She could remember the feel of the pine needles under foot, the wind carrying the smell of the lake to her, as far as she *knew* everyone was still out there, being themselves, doing the work they were working on together, and yet she felt desperately alone here. 

They regarded her with those beautiful eyes.  In another place, in another time, with another world around them, perhaps they would have been lovers. But in this place and time they were not.  She couldn't even regard them as an enemy, but that word was as close as she could get--it was an intimate malice and she was terrified.


[stuff happens]

She realized that she was not, in fact, alone. Io was here with her.  Io with their malice and their desperation and their bizarre institutional backing and whatever their long goal was, Io was here with her in this metal place.

She laughed. 

Io ignored her, continuing to cook. 

She had her way out, now.  And Io would never be the same. 

---

Lo is the main character.  The world is a different place where we work together, where we've developed all kinds of ways of making things work with our bodies, with the earth.  Like in 17776, many problems have been solved. 

So the main problem is, perhaps, simply an emotional one.  In 17776, the main issue is that the old probe can't catch up to the new times.  The new painless times. The struggle for meaning in the face of absolutely no threat.


----

They had asked her to read the book.  That was fine.  She was, in fact, very good at reading, which seemed obviously like something a person could be good at.  

It was the cooking that did it.  It was always the cooking.

Obviously someone needed to cook and since they were basically sharing all duties, she volunteered to cook one night.  It would be fine.  She could follow a recipe. 

---

She is the guardian of a secret and the organizer of a team who needs to either find the secret or make it all work together.  

They were all out, working.  The house was quiet, no devices humming, no sound of lights burning. All the lights were off so she sat in the kitchen near the largest window.  The large wooden table was from her childhood, her parent had collected the wood themselves from fallen timber and sickly trees.  That's how all furniture worked, which is also why people tended not to have large families. 

The wood didn't match, making stripes of darker and lighter woods.  The softer woods bore the marks of her childhood drawings, pens and crayons pressing light shapes into the wood.  

She had the papers out on the table.  A stack of books off to her left, neatly lined up on the edge of the table. In front of her the map stretched to nearly the ends of the table, and the folder of data was off to the right. 

She was beginning to think this was the wrong map.  The right place, but the wrong map.  Maybe the wrong scale, or maybe she needed a different *type* of map. 

Maybe it was a map from the wrong *time*.  

She moved over to the bookshelf and pulled off her oldest map book.  She wouldn't have computer time until Monday but for now this would do.  She pulled it out.  There was, indeed, a map of her forest--but so large that the forest itself wasn't even marked. The copyright said the book was published in 2047 but she knew that this map could have been much older, just copied and copied and copied forward in time. 

If she could just *get in* to the forest, this might all be for naught.  But ever since the fence had sprung up with the menacing signs on it, that had seemed like a poor idea.  She just needed to know what was growing there, to see if anything had *changed*. 

