What is the economy in this world not quite our own? 

Do they have jobs? Do they need jobs? How does the market run? How do the Delvers work? 

I think there is still some semblance of our material world--they need to be able to get bicycle tubes somewhere.  They have computers available at least part time, so there is some kind of centralized source of power.  They have running water. This kind of infrastructure is pretty hard to run without cash and people working on it. 

I may not need to solve this but first, does Lo have a job? 

The closest thing she has to a job right now is her historian type activities.  She writes books and learns lots of old songs.  I feel like she is kind of a loser in terms of work and spends a lot more time on her own passion projects than she does on the things that would make her money.  This is probably still tracing back to her sense that she missed her shot when the Delvers didn't bring her in. She feels pretty deeply that she deserves to do the interesting work she loves but there is no space for that in the world, so she's been spending her time building a life full of learning and delving and sensign although there's no way for that to support her without being one of the Delvers. 

What are those things?  Maybe she worked as a librarian for a while, or maybe she still does but is pretty flaky so they don't really rely on her.  

What does Su do? I think she's a mechanic for the neighborhood. In general the level of mechanci ability is very high compared to our world but she's a specialist and knows how to fix things that are very hard to come by. 

I think there are maybe 3d printers in every home but I'm still working that out. It doesn't seem super important at this point. 

The Delvers get a small cash allowance.  People tithe to them for their services--sometimes right at the moment on the street and otherwise during singing services or on holidays.

Housing is generally not an issue--after the Great Mourning, housing was overbuilt for the remaining population so people generally were able to move about and find a house they liked. Houses are mostly passed down generationally--a family will have a half dozen or more units that can be allocated to children.  If more is needed they can go property hunting and find a building in decent shape and just....move in.  There are also folks who maintain what are essentially apartment buildings and accept rent for them. Property ownership isn't super critical anymore. 

Who pays for infrastructure improvements? Medicine? Schooling? 
(What holidays are there?)

