[con't from scene with Fi] She knew enough about the time before to know she didn't want that. Not everyone knew or understood the purpose of the Delvers, but Lo did and Lo didn't want everyone else to find out again. 

"Okay, well, I guess...I'm kind of in the middle of a few things but we can at least talk about it a bit more." Truthfully she didn't have much going on at the time. 

Fi glanced at Lo but remembered themselves and glanced away again. "Thank you."  The sound of relief in their voice affected Lo heavily. "I told the Delvers I'd bring you to our local home and they could give you the rest of the information you need.  Can you leave now?"

Lo froze. She'd already had a lot of shocks today. "Fi, could I ask you to wait here while I check in with my friends?"

She stepped out onto the balcony where Su was trying and failing to look nonchalant about the intruder.  Su had always been a prickly one, more independent than the rest of them, and very defensive of the people she loved.  She looked closely at Lo, but Lo just pulled her close for a hug.  

"I'm going to see the Delvers."

Su pulled back to look her in the eyes. "Why the Delvers? Why are they here?"

Lo shook her head. "I'm not sure, but they seem to need a historian. I'm just going to visit the local Well and get the details. I'll be back but I'm wondering if it might not take a day or two.  So I wanted to let you know. Can you tell Io and let them know I'm sorry I didn't stay to say goodbye?"

This scene has lost alllll steam so let's move the fuck on.

---

Lo grabbed her bag from the rack on the back of her bike and nodded to Fi.  The ride had been about three hours and her legs were a bit tired and stiff, but not bad. The nearest well was in an old church, as many of them were.  It was beautiful, really, and very large.  She'd never been inside one of the Wells.  The experience was overwhelming.  

This Well was beautiful to Lo. Her reservations and fear melted away as they drew closer.  There were a few rings around the Well itself, a sort of labyrinth of entrance, not hedged but merely manicured.  Large dried hydrangea globes bobbed in the breeze. An inner circle of maples were lit in full orange.  After the long ride she started to feel refreshed.  It seemed cooler and cleaner here than anywhere else she had been.  

The building itself was hexagonal, with large windows.  As they pedaled toward the center, Lo was sure they were being examined in one way or another, though she couldn't see anyone who paid them much mind.  A few delvers were replacing some dead daffodils with pansies.  

As she fussed with the clips on her backpack, a tall person stepped out of the front door and greeted them both. 

"Fi, good to see you. Lo, thank you for travelling with Fi to get here.  Let's go inside and I will get you something to eat and drink."  Lo nodded appreciatively.  She could feel a narcotic effect setting in--her mind seemed clear but she was strugging to find anything to worry about. 

As they entered the building, they walked down a long hallway that seemed to bisect the building.  The floor was smooth stone, and the hall was low-ceilinged and dark--lit mostly from light that flooded in through the windowed doors at either end.  They reached the far side and took a right, following the outside of the building with the glass exterior on their left.  They entered a small room. 

The taller one started making tea and gestured at two chairs in this strange windowless hexagonal room.  "Make yourselves comfortable.  Let me know if you need anything--there's a bell by the door." They pointed at a small plastic button on the wall--it looked positively ancient to Lo. In general the room seemed like something from a historical exhibit--the thick orange carpet, wood paneling on the walls.  She thought it looked like a living room from before the Great Mourning era. The tables and side bar were all very low slung, sleek looking, but the fabrics were all heavily textured--velvets, linen, brocade, things she couldn't name.  A single plant hung from a crocheted holder. She wondered how it lived in here with no windows.  [Ed note: I feel like this is a picture perfect living room from the 60s.]

Then the tall one turned to hand each of them a teacup and saucer, then placed a small tray of ginger cookies on the center of the table and wordlessly left the room. 

Lo picked up the tea but didn't drink right away--she blew on it while waiting to see what Fi did.  Fi took the cup as well and drank a few sips immediately.  Lo figured it was probably fine and drank as well. She was thirsty after the ride.  A cookie would help, too.

She reached for a ginger snap and noticed Fi was nervous.  "How ya doing, Fi?" Lo tried to keep it light.  "You look a bit spooked."

"I've just...I haven't been in this part of the Well for a long time.  And never like this."

"When did you come here?"

"When I was younger, they wanted to train me as a server, before my expertise with plants became known. How do you feel?"

Lo swallowed the cookie.  She didn't know if anyone was listening and decided it was better not to confess much. "I'm alright--I feel very calm, really." She assumed that was intentional on the part of the Delvers. 

Fi nodded. "You know, I'm not sure when, but it's likely they'll turn that down for you at some point today.  But with new people we always--"

The door swung open.  Another Delver swept into the room.  They wore very small sunglasses with reflective lenses--glasses that were nearly the exact size of their eyeballs.  Their hair was very long and straight and swept over the top of their head and down their back, with no part. They wore a black silk shirt and form fitting gray pants--not the robes Lo had noticed on the other Delvers here at the well.  Their smile was almost embarrassed--one of those half-embarassed, sheepish smiles that means the giver isn't really embarrassed at all.  

"Lo, I'm Un. It's so nice to finally meet you."

Lo automatically reached out for a handshake and felt immensely comforted when Un's hand took hers and shook.  "Nice to meet you, Un."

"Fi, thank you for your service in this matter, you can go to the bunks and make a spot for Lo."  Fi rose and bowed a short bow, then left the room wordlessly.  

They sat together in this small living room, not speaking.  Lo was overtaken with a calmness and joy she couldn't explain in the moment.  Un was merely waiting. 

After a few moments, Un spoke.  Their voice was low and beautiful, almost a bit gravelly. 

"Lo, I brought you here to talk about what Fi saw. We need your help and we need you to know things that no one knows outside of the Delvers."

Lo nodded enthusiastically.  She felt so drawn to Un that she of course wanted to help out. 

"But you need to know things and make your own decisions.  I know it is very pleasant being here, so we need to give you some time to adjust."

Lo didn't really know what Un was talking about but nodded anyway. 

"I'm going to slowly turn down my connection with you.  You may feel a bit lonely as it happens, but it's just a matter of comparison, not actual loneliness.  We'll have you stay overnight to recover and then we'll talk more in the morning."

Lo frowned a bit but it passed quickly.  "Lo, can you tell me about your bike ride in?"

Lo began to chatter about the bike ride, with Un asking periodic questions.  This was a standard practice when humans had to be brought in for any reason--Un had been doing it for a very long time and was known to have a light tough.  Lo was fine at first, effervescent nearly.  Then as Un decreased the delving, Lo became slower and less talkative until she finally seemed nearly dejected. 

It all went like normal, but there was something else about it as well. 

Lo had transferred her feelings back to Un, in some ways.  Un hadn't felt a genuine resonance with someone outside the Delvers in a very long time--it was uncommon for non-Delver adults to be able to affect a Delver, especially one of Un's abilities.  Un filed this information away--they'd been told Lo was special but nothing more; maybe this had something to do with it. As Un felt Lo's emotions begin to crash, he discretely dropped a pill in her next cup of tea. She needed rest. 

---

Lo awoke the next morning with a headache.  She was in a lower level of the Well, in a room with several bunks but no one else she could see.  She didn't really remember much after her conversation with Un. And the peaceful feelings she'd been full of yesterday seemed entirely gone.  She felt clearer than she had in a very long time, but also...she felt a creeping sense of unease. 

She sat up and saw an insulated flask (presumably tea) and a note written on a single index card by hand, black ink:  

_When you're up, here's some tea for you, and a bit of food for you.  We'll come down for you when we're ready._

She dropped the note and poured herself a cup of tea.  Something unexpected had happened to her yesterday, to be sure, but she had no idea what.  She tore a roll in half and started spreading butter on the middle, then jam, then a piece of cheese.  Then she smashed them back together and ate them like a sandwich.  At least the food here was pretty decent. 

She had a large bite in her mouth when the door swung open.  It was yet another Delver she didn't know.  This one was wearing reflective glasses as well, but wore the robes she'd seen on so many here. 

"Good morning, Lo, how are you feeling?"

"Fine, thank you. What's your name?"

"I'm Zo, forgive my rudeness!" The Delver knew she wasn't fine but didn't say anything and restrained themselves from outputting any calmness.  "I've been sent to bring you upstairs for a meeting. Are you ready?"

Lo was already smearing jam on her second roll & adding the cheese, mouth still full from the first. She stood up, tea in one hand, breakfast in the other. "Lead on, Zo."

Zo almost asked her to leave the food but realized there was little point in it and little harm.  They followed some dark hallways until they found a staircase and headed up.  They went up four flights of stairs, Lo holding onto her breakfast as they climbed.  On the fourth floor, they entered a large chamber with a big hexagonal table in the center.  There were 17 Delvers in the room, three on each side of the table, with a spot for (she presumed) herself between Fi and Un.  Fi, for all their awkward lack of eye contact, brimmed with supportive friendliness.  The rest sat expectantly. 

"You might have warned me it was a formal gathering," she muttered to Zo. 

"It's....complicated." they said quietly, then cleared their throat, "I present Lo Ana Iuy to the Council of Delvers." then bowed and turned to leave.

Not a good sign when your host is as scared of your situation as you are.

---

TODO (maybe): Write about the actual Council of the Delvers--what do they say, what are they like? 

Un stood up and the other Delvers followed.  They took off their glasses and looked at her, except Fi and two other Delvers she hadn't seen right away, off to the side.  They sang a shining song that nearly seemed to pin her to the wall. 

_We need you here_
_We are so thankful._
_We will write songs for you._
_The threat is real and you are the protector._
_The wind is cold._ 
_The void grows large._

The word void woke her from the trance of the beautiful song.  The force of the Council working in concert was not something many ever experienced--they used it only for helping the other Delvers stay in sync, and non-Delvers were usually not able to withstand it.  But this one was different than any others. 