The next day she tried to visit the tree and found the fence locked. 


Write about how they locked it up and kept it locked up--this is the forest they are hiding from her. 



THINGS THAT GOT LOST: 

_The history of the tree, the way the strangeness of the tree in its context obscured from her that true strangeness about it.  Something is hiding in this tree and she needs to know what.  (Alternatively she gets offed and somebody else figures it all out.)_

She felt stupid for not noticing before, the obvious strangeness of this tree.  But she also knew that the tree had been strange to her for years, and strange to others before. 

She had always found it strange to see this massive ancient creature in the middle of the city, and she knew that it had likely survived even the Great Mourning, the Great Mourning that had taken out entire species, this tree had lived.  

She thought back to the men who had planted it here--the old Spanish missionaries.  It hurt her a bit to think of it, but she took a breath and accepted that the painful thing had happened and could not un-happen.  It was a fundamental teaching: things cannot un-happen. 

She thought of them arriving from Baja California, with wagons and burros, across the arid coastline.  Finding the people here and finding their sacred spring and planting this tree here then.  

Even as a symbol of conquest the tree was beloved because trees are beloved.  And so the invader remained, a strange and massive reminder of the disruption of the Europeans coming to the Americas.  

It grew, and grew.  The water of the sacred spring bubbled up and fed the tree with its clear water.  The roots of the tree spread out into the ponds of the spring, protected and living together with wild calla lillies and reeds.  It grew and grew and the strangeness of it obscured its deeply held secret.  

She sat with the tree the rest of the day.  One man wandered by, in an old-fashioned business suit.  He seemed to be like her, seeking a peaceful and quiet place, though he stood out for his bizarre attire.  They greeted each other and she went back to her studies.  She delved into the tree's history in so many ways--tasting the bark, the leaves, the soil.  She used her mind to speak with it.  She danced with it, feeling the shift of the ground beneath her and learning more about the roots as they grew below the earth.  

The secret began to take shape in her mind until it coalesced, finally, as a clear image in her mind:  There were seven dark, hooded figures gathered around the tree, the tree a flaming beacon--somehow both aflame and still living.  THe city around was gone, the mountains in the near distance shrouded with marine mist.  The animals around the seven were fearful but the figures themselves were unafraid.  

The tree held great power.  She needed to tell Lo.  It would save them all.  She knew it.  

She began to run out of the park and back to the house.  She smiled, she laughed.  Today was a good day. 

[chapter break]

[A few meta thoughts as we begin: The tree may in fact be from another planet/culture/civilization.  The tree may be physically hiding something.  And the tree may be false--may be the secret will help the other side but our protagonist is unable to see it because she is so committed to plants and nature.  A Trojan horse ish thing.]



---

_Su riding a motorcycle to get to the library. She takes the freeway because it's less obvious. She loves riding. Describe the beautiful day she experiences.  She sees a car ahead and gets spooked. Only the gov't uses cars now and only for ceremonial purposes.  She tails them, watches them park it under a tree and start walking away. TOwards the library._

Su started the bike.  Technically they all shared the small tough dirt bike but everybody knew the bike was Su's. When someone took as much joy from something as su did from the bike, who else can really make a claim?  She spent hours fixing it, making new fuel, and dreaming of those days she would get to ride it.  

Since gasoline had gone away, they'd invented new fuel sources--fermented leaf litter, algae, corn syrup--most of which could be made on a local level with at least some degree of success.  So you'd still see vehicles on the road, though mostly smaller ones--smartcars or motorcycles, mopeds.  Some of the governments had shipping lanes up in the north, but they were mostly wind and sun driven and hard to replicate on a smaller scale. 

She pulled out of the alley and headed west.  She pulled onto the freeway, wary of obstacles and potholes as usual.  

She couldn't go as fast but she loved the freeway--the tall walls with their privacy, the long straight lines, no traffic.  It was worth the wilderness that had grown up in the cracks of the pavement. 

One time she'd gone out East and some of their freeways had been turned into parks, and while she had to admit they were perfectly nice, she had to admit they made her feel a little sad.  Lo had told her about the start of the freeways and she was relieved not to have to ride on them--the speeds sounded exhilarating but the crowds sounded unbearable.  She couldn't really imagine the freeways full of cars crawling along at low speed.  The past seemed a strange nightmare when Lo talked about it but they msut have liked what they had given how sad all the songs were. 

She realized she'd gotten distracted and while she was navigating a deer trail through the bushes just fine she hadn't noticed the Jeep up ahead.  They were driving a bit faster than her.  She had no idea if they knew she was back here--they were louder than her engine.  She kept following--it was almost unheard of to find a vehicle of that size still in operation.  It was almost mythical--a vehicle for the ultrarich or the ultradangerous.  It was certainly interesting enough to follow for a bit.  Her mission wasn't urgent. 

So she tailed them on this perfect late autumn day.  The sun flickered through the leaves on the trees as she pushed faster than she liked on the freeway.  A rabbit nearby darted off as she approached.  The sun warmed the back of her hands and the smell of leaves was rich in her nose--the trees were still fairly young on the 405 so the pines hadn't moved in yet. 

They didn't change their speed so she suspected they didn't see her.  She was feeling a bit smug about it--she liked to keep the bike matte, to wear a lot of brown and green--Bu would have stood out in her purples.  

The jeep swerved off the freeway.  She was starting to get whiffs of the fuel they were burning--it smelled like algae.  Expensive. 
