TODO: Write about the social technology that holds this all together. It's obviously tied up in the singing, meditating, and maybe something else. There's a strain of some magic, maybe, with the delvers.  

The Great Mourning finally took both sides of the political divide.  

It took awile for the young people to be tired enough. Instead of the ongoing refreshing energy from the young people, they were tired. Everyone was tired. Nobody was encouraging anybody to do anything.  They stopped reading the news. 

This is not working for me today. 

---


---

Here are some more thoughts about the Delvers: 

They're essentially a network of cells of Delvers who have been trained centrally to uphold certain types of values and behaviors--they're a benevolent organization that is perhaps a bit too strict about what they disallow, but they're very contextually sensitive and local.  There is not a lot of national/international media except for what is put out by/approved by the Delvers. But they are also vulnerable as the local Delvers are just people and can't necessarily do it all. It's not a particularly authoritarian organization--it's very networky and distributed--but the standards and values are centralized. 

Do the Delvers wear sunglasses to protect the populace when they are feeling their own emotions so that folks don't get stray bad feels? 

Certain delvers have particular sensitivities -- like Fi is good with plants.  

TODO: Does the Dark Cult have an ongoing protection of the tree? I already killed Raul who put the thing there but he could also conceivably tell the padres he wants to stay and start his own sleeper network to protect the tree--raising his boys and recruiting others who push out the women keepers of the tree? And maybe that order is still around.

TODO: We have a very compelling problem for Lo to solve. We need a conflicting desire.  Ther'es something there with the fact that she hates/envies the Delvers, but is it enough? Is it enough that you have to help the people who didn't think you were special enough as a child?  Does she prove her value in the final tree scene? Is this how she gains the weird title King of All Birds?  I think she gets the title sooner but when she fixes the tree situation she actually kind of breaks the Delvers, somehow.  She makes a new social structure or convinces them that everyone needs what they have. The Delvers need Lo to succeed, but they also are threatened by the way she resolves it. Lo knows she has to save the world and is interested in the particular problem.  

TODO:  THe original coffee man is a delver who gets corrupted and begins corrupting other delvers because the techniques of the Delvers are useful in bad ways too. 

TODO: THe Delvers Leadership are aware of all this fucked up shit going on but only vaguely--weakness of a network like this--and that's why they bring in Lo.  They actually already know she will threaten them and will threaten society but the Bad Guys are worse.  (Are the Bad Guys partially motivated by their lost childhoods and lives of servitude? At least, does the vibe get to them?)

TODO: What about Lo is a problem for them? It could be that she *was* special and for that reason they rejected her.  Maybe there was a prophecy about her.  She is too introverted and not natively interested in being in community so they didn't think she would be good enough.  Her parents hid her from the Delvers as an infant but she is super powerful.  What is the future she brings about? If we know how she brings about a new future, we can learn what it is about her that brings it to happen.  I think it also has be related to her conficting desire.  

Lo desires to help the Delvers because she knows it will keep the whole world safe, but she suspects something dark at the heart of the Delvers--that they are hiding lots of feelings from everyone else.  Lo desires to help the Delvers because the Bad Guys are threatening her friends and family and life, but she has always been resistant to the powers of the Delvers (not completely immune, just more aware of the mind control aspects than other people) and isn't 100% into the Delvers being the bosses. Lo desires to help the Delvers but believes the tools and songs of the Delvers should be for everyone.  Lo wants to help the Delvers but knows that the Delver system of taking babies is unfair and cruel to the children and their families--she saw a woman weeping and screaming when her child was taken from her (when Lo was five or six) and it was the only time she'd seen someone that scared and angry in her entire life.  

Maybe it's just that Lo wants to help the Delvers because the Delvers are an important part of the society Lo loves and values, but the Delvers are maybe not the best for everyone. 