#themes: Music

Her music studies were going well, she thought to herself.  Not everyone would have been able to learn all these songs the way she had, mostly out of books and going to weird events where other music nerds would gather. 

She toyed with her dinner, a particular song stuck in her head: 

_Needing is one thing, and getting /
getting's another_

It was an old song.  It was from before and had nothing to do with anything else, but it's stuck in our writer's head and feels relevant. 

She had been specializing in the songs of extinction, lately.  There was an older person in town who got together with people once a month to sing those songs, songs of rage and fear and loss about the last elm tree, about the lost stripes of the tiger, about all the dead koalas.  The deeper you went the more you got into small creatures: The disappearance of the Rio Grande Silvery Minnow, the battles against the zebra mussels and lion fish as they devoured ecosystems whole.  Bananas actually had an entire subgenre about them--songs about identical creatures being identically vulnerable, about banana splits.  One about the old joke about banana peels being slippery made her laugh particularly hard. 

At the church, they sang together.  They couldn't bring books or written versions of the songs from the library to the church, so when she found a new one at the library she was compelled to learn it herself, singing it over and over at home and on her bike until she could bring it to them.  Ml knew a lot of the songs and could help her when she fumbled. 

It was lovely, really, the singing of these songs together.  The churches were so resonant, absolutely the right place for singing of any kind, and the light streamed in on them.  Many weeks they wept together at the end.  


At the end of the recent session, as Lo sat and dried her face, Ml said to them: "This is why we sing.  We can't forget the pain.  And the music carries it to us, fresh as the day it was born. And we also have to remember how we handle the pain matters.  It matters to let it flow through us. The pain will always win if we don't let it flow."

She nodded. Her shoulders slumped and she felt tired.  The group of singers had gathered around her in silence, as they always did when someone was suffering extra. 

It was wise.  But it was hard.  