

---

[Do we need to demonstrate how they all get there? It probably depends on how well we know them all.]

---

The tree was gone. 

The tree was gone.  They had cut down the tree!

How could they have cut down the tree?

She spun in a circle.  There were dozens of trees around but they were young in comparison.  
The corpse of the big tree lay on the ground.  Some of the leaves were still green but it was dying.  It had fallen on the small low building nearby, crushing it under its weight. 

This had to be the tree the magic one had reported.  It looked like the pictures Lo had dug up.  

She ran to the tree and put her hands on the trunk.  A hot energy burned her hands and she whipped them away.  She felt tears and fear building up inside her. 

"It's not fair. It's not right. It wasn't even a good idea! It won't stop us! ANYONE could see that cutting this tree down was the wrong thing to do.  This was the oldest thing left on this earth after the Mourning.  And they know that! They know that!" She screamed at the carcass of the tree and felt her hands start to blister from the heat.  

"Lo."

Jy put their hand on her back.  

"Lo."

They said it again, quietly and she felt the fear draining out of her from the spot on her back where their warm hand rested. 

"Lo, we have to try it anyhow.  We can't bring the tree back."

She nodded. She wanted to sing for this lost tree right now, but she knew there were more urgent matters to attend to.  The Bad Guys were winning.  They were out there right now, having their meetings and planning ways to overthrow us all.  She wanted to tear them apart with her own hands, to use them to fertilize this tree.  And she felt sad for the fact that The Bad Guys were so lost. So hurt that they would do this to a beautiful and ancient tree.  She saw the world from their eyes for a short moment and felt her own emotions lock up.  No one would want to live in that world.  

She slumped to the ground.  She felt leaf litter under her blistered hands.  She felt the wind touching the tears she hadn't realized she let out.  She looked up and saw her people standing around, ready to help.  

"It is the only way. Change is coming." She spoke quietly and they felt briefly afraid of her. "This is the natural order of things; change sets in."

She nodded.  She could see the fear in their eyes but she could also see them setting their resolve, aligning with each other. Getting ready for battle. 

She stood up and brushed the leaves from her knees.  She wiped the tears from her face and reached out to Jy and Su.  

They walked around the stump of the tree, hands outstretched to one another.  The purple clouds overhead flickered with lightning and the wind picked up.  The storm was not natural.  It was the manifestation of the evil that had been living in this tree.  Lo didn't know if the tree had been cut down to stop the evil or if the death of the tree was meant to seal the evil in the world, to give it no escape.  But it didn't matter anyhow.  They would try.

Su started the song, somewhat to Lo's surprise. She had always been the quietest one. 

_Long fibers stretching tall_
_Let us see you grow. Let us see you rise._
_Flat paper leaves that move like blood_
_We let you see us grow. We let you see us rise._

Lo joined in with her, singing the counter words.  
