_Together we are trembling_
_Together we are strong_
_Our eyes are wide_
_The perfume of your love, the perfume_

Jy added the third: 

_sacred water sacred water_
_we're holding on_
_flowers of your holy love_
_we're closer, we're closer_.

They kept singing the first verse looping together.  Their voices rang out together, but the song was noticeably incomplete. Lo looked at Nw and saw them standing there, staring up at the clouds, utterly paralyzed.  Lo knew instinctively she couldn't walk over to Nw right now.  She began clapping with their song, and Nw jumped. They looked over at Lo.  The fear that had set in ever since that night with Io surged in her chest.  Her voice wobbled but she kept on singing and clapping.  It didn't matter in Nw had turned. Lo needed to believe in her heart that they hadn't.  It was the only way. 

Nw seemed to turn away, slowly, or to be caught in the act of doing so: a body that wanted to go one way with eyes that were fixed on Lo disagreeing. They seemed hypnotized, controlled by something outside themselves.  

Lo took a chance and added a new line.  The song wasn't working yet anyhow, maybe it was okay to alter it. 

She took a deep breath and pitched her voice high, a wail over the other two: 

_C'mon, baby, light my fire_

She could feel Jy & Su both whipped their heads to look at her but they kept singing. She stared directly at Nw, pleading with every fiber of her body, returning to the original melody and words. There seemed to be a light growing from the stump of the tree.  

Nw had shifted their intense focus to the light.  They walked forward and almost touched it.  Lo wondered what was going on in there but couldn't move if she wanted to--her legs seemed to be stuck where they were. 

Finally she heard, in a great burst, Nw's voice joining them, rich and strong:

_Meet us under the old willow tree_
_We will be there to fight_
_When we fight we fold_
_Must us under the old willow tree_

Nothing seemed to be happening with the tree yet but Lo could feel tears flowing down her face.  Through everything they had managed to arrive here togther. 