She needed to learn to control her rage. 

But everytime she contained it she only felt the pressure grow.  And the rage would grow with it. 

She felt an obsessive need to be better, to prove herself, to know that she was better than these...

She caught herself.  That was where they got their foothold. 

Everyone has strengths and weaknesses.  It's entirely possible Uy was smarter and stronger than her in all ways, but it didn't matter. 

And that was what distinguished them from the humans who came before.  She closed her eyes.  She took a deep breath.  She let the thoughts drain from her, imagined them sliding away from her like water, dripping off her chin and running down the back of her head.  

TODO: Finish meditation scene. 

---


---

"Well, that's a good story."

Su had always been the skeptical one, so Lo waited for the rest of the snark to land. 

"I mean, it can't be right.  There is no way those three people in that one band could have gotten married and broken up that many times."

"You thought I was full of shit when I told you about all those old car movies, too, but I wasn't."

Su pursed her lips, then shrugged. "Fair. I Didn't believe you then and there really were eight The Fast & The Furious movies."

"And they were good. You didn't believe me on that either."

Lo tapped her pencil on the table.  This is how it went, time and time again.  

Io was in the other room, cleaning the countertops and humming a lovely low melody.  Io's voice distracted Lo frequently. 

TODO: Finish red-head coming in to share the vision.  