#Summary: FLIGHT FROM THE WELL. FINDING ALL THE WOUNDED DELVERS. 

As Lo runs down the hall, blind to where she is going, she realizes she is crying.

This hallway is totally new to Lo. Here every last detail is hexagonal--the shape of the hallway, the doorways, door knobs, everything. The ceiling, walls and floor are all a highly polished, warm wood--it is a tunnel more than a hallway. She wipes her face as she sees a Delver running at top speed toward her. She steadies herself for a confrontation but they simply sprint past her toward the library, concern on their face.

At the end of the hallway, Lo can see a large room. She slows as she approaches the room--she's lost but she's starting to recognize this part of the Well. It feels...it feels like the room they took her to see the Queen, was it only a few months ago? They obscured the way to the Queen when they brought her, using some complicated Delving to confuse her sense of direction and to push her attention toward trivial details. This isn't the same hallway she came in--it seemed to her that she was perhaps using the private hallways of the Queen.  When she came before, the only thing she remembered was a peculiar pattern to the wood tiles, a striping that was clearly part of the original tree but she'd never seen anything like it.  She doesn't feel any Delving and using her own rudimentary senses, she detects almost nothing in the room. She can tell there are people there, but they don't seem quite right. It feels like when she would feel Fi as she slept, a quiet humming rather than the jagged patterns of an active, alert human. 

Last time the door had been guarded--a very nice guard, but a guard nonetheless--but today no one waits at the doors to the Queen's chambers.  Lo steps up to the opening and looks around. The enormous chamber, domed, must reach to the ceiling of the Well--there is a bright but diffuse light that must be sunlight. The room is almost humid, and smells of growth. Plants climb everywhere--banana trees, fig trees, palms and bromeliads--a veritable hot house. The smell was incredible. The room soothed Lo in some way, felt designed to hold her, to love her. A small fountain splashed into a pond in the middle of the room, covered in lily ponds. The edge that had followed her--a mix of fear and excitement, grief too--seemed to slide away as she breathed this clean, moist air.  Last time she had attributed it to the queen, but the Queen wasn't here.  

Lo stood, nearly entranced, in the doorway, until she heard a feeble noise off to her right. Along one of the twisting paths, she found a Delver sprawled on the walkway.  This Delver, dark curls covering their eyes, groaned again as Lo approached. She reached down, compelled despite a deep sense of fear to help, and touched them on the shoulder.  There was no blood, no obvious sign of physical damage, and yet the groaning was unmistakably the sound of a person in pain.  When her hand reached their shoulder, they shrieked, loud and breathy, eyes suddenly open and staring at her--or more accurately, through her.  She removed her hand and the Delver stopped shrieking, their eyelids sinking as they fell into a more restful state. Still, as she sensed them, they were spiking with fear and stress--her contact had not helped. So, despite every part of her wanting to help, she backed away. Perhaps she could find someone else to help. 

Six doors looked at her from each wall of the hexagonal chamber. She headed toward the one closest to her, hoping to find the way out. Her hand reached out toward the handle and she heard a loud bang behind her--the door across the way had been thrown open. A few Delvers she didn't recognize lurked in the doorway, shoulders up and forward, scanning the room. Looking for threats. 