This story, if there's anything to it beyond the facts, well, it's not how the Delvers wanted it told. Because there is a version of this story where they come out the heroes, the maligned and troubled heroes, they made the right choices asking Lo to come forward and work for them. But the fact is, though some of the Delvers were doing the right thing, many of them were not. And Lo's genius was seeing that. Her genius was being able to tell she was being lied to, and to step outside of the lie. 
Lo's genius was to step outside of the story, to envision a world better than she had known could exist, to see the flaws in a foundation that everyone else believed solid--and to take the steps necessary to fix them. And she did it by looking inward as well as outward.  By knowing her own outline in the great amorphous mess of humanity. Most people never manage such a thing. Most people never get that clear eyed. But though Lo was, in some ways, born to it--born to make the world again in a new image, born to be outside enough to crack the shells--despite what looks now like fate, she was miraculous in her own way and we shouldn't forget the details of how it all came to pass. 
So, before anybody else can steal the story from us (it's our story now, isn't it?), I am here to set the record straight. To remind us all that we can stand outside the edges and not disappear.  I'm as guilty as anyone--caught up in the story of my life as a Delver, caught up in the ease and grace of our lives before.  I figured it out sooner than the others, but that was luck. That was knowing Lo. That was part of being previously forsaken, pushed out.  Let us remember those we have pushed out, for they are tested by fire and will come to be let in again.  They may not all be as generous as Lo was.  
Let's go back to the beginning. Let's remember it as it was, so the lessons can be passed again.  The situation is not, as we know, fully resolved. But I am confident we'll be remembered. The song will live on.
---

I saw her first in the vision. At the time I didn't know the seven figures in my vision were living, it felt like a visit from a different timeline, a different universe.  So when I saw her, ordinary in brown pants and a well-loved purple t-shirt, warm green eyes a bit bleary and distrustful, opening the door to her frankly shabby apartment, it was like biting into a bit of bone you didn't know was in your food. I couldn't place her at first, the shock was so much, but I finally realized she had been one of the singers.  How or why this normal looking person would become that menacing presence, that warlock I saw in the vision--that part was still obscured to me. 