SUMMARY: Lo, despairing, remembers why she fights and regains resolve.

Sure, she had work to do. But mostly Lo couldn't rest on a day so beautiful. She felt compelled to ride on and on, or to sit under a tree and just soak it in.  The sky, cloudless save for the faintest soft fingerprints of clouds, was blue and endless, but the air was cool.  The trees had all turned yellow--a bright screaming yellow that shimmered against that blue background.  The dust, the coarse tree bark, the weeds gone to seed--it all just felt inexplicably right to her. The smell of wood smoke and manure filled her up, made her happy in a way that felt good.  Not like eating too much candy.  

The wind rushed past her as she rode.  Across the field from her, she saw some wild sheep grazing in a field that had long ago gone fallow, wooden fences damaged but somewhat intact.  A small flock of birds wheeled over the ditch--remnants of the old agricultural system kept around for the small farms that still lined the muddy brown river.  She rode past a family sitting on the side of the trail, eating a picnic of some sort, the child drawing pictures in the flour-fine silt with a found stick.  They waved and she kept riding. 

For the first time in weeks, since this whole business had started, she felt at peace.  Sure, maybe they'd win. Maybe they'd ruin everything she'd known and loved.  But she knew, somehow, somewhere inside of her, that they could never take this--they could never take the way that blue and yellow laid next to each other above her, the dappling of shadows. Even if no one ever worked it out, even if they enslaved everyone again, even if...they couldn't take that internal spark that was capable of feeling so much pleasure at the smallest leaf tumbling in the wind.  

Resolve grew in her--they wouldn't take a damn thing without a fight. Not her good days, not her bad days, not her friends, or her family, or the music. She would make them take it.  There was no laying down on a day like today. 