SUMMARY: Lo realizes her song has basically killed everyone at the Well. She finds Fi, unconscious and barely alive. She flees.

The All is Lost moment = Lo finally realizes she has to gamble it all. She makes her decision and the Well collapses around her. She believes she has lost. She finds Fi unconscious and barely living and knows that she is the one who did this. She realizes that her impulse to do good has wrought terrible harm on those she loves most, both individually (Fi) and collectively (the Delvers). She realizes she has to let go of the beautiful and tempting vision that the Delvers provide, the comfort, the control, the hierarchy (even though that hierarchy excluded her)--and forge her own path. Do what is right and not only what is expected. Not only what is stable.  And when she does, absolute catastrophe rains down around her and she becomes convinced that she broke it all, that she is to blame, that everything is her fault. 

And there is where I start to feel the words coming to what the theme is.  The theme is clinging to what is right even when what you thought was right is revealed to be a lie. That the performance of goodness is not the same as true goodness. (I feel so much skepticism of my own motivation in this story--like, what story am I telling more generally? Why do I feel compelled to set up a beautiful society and then have someone tear it down? Am I fucked up and perpetuating the patriarchy? Or just writing a story that reflects that foibles of non-intersectional feminism. I don't know. I will only know when it's done, if I even know it then.