The Great Mourning started with Kevin Spacey, though it could have started anywhere. 

The history books say it could have started with the election of Donald Trump, with the riot at Charlottesville, with Citizens United.   There had been dozens of books on when the start might have been.  What the cause.  The books were congenial, helpful to each other when able.  It could have started with the death of Trayvon Martin or any of the dozens of other Black deaths.  

But it started with Kevin Spacey. 

It started there because as we all learned together, it starts where it will start.  Not where it should start. It only starts where it should start if the people involved are truly ready and lord, the people of the late 20th and early 21st centuries were not ready.  It pained her to read about them sometimes, their utter unpreparedness for life.  They even knew it to be true in the moment, though they were mostly worried about not knowing how to cook a good Thanksgiving turkey (another tradition she had questions about) or how to change a car tire.  They worried about the wrong things entirely but their worry did come from the right place: They knew they wanted to be better, they knew they had the capacity to be better, they jusu couldn't see in front of themselves. 

Anyway a totally irrelevant show called House of Cards got cancelled when it turned out that the star of the show was a creep.  It was sort of confusing to her from this vantage but he had been admired widely.  Many things were lost but there was still video from the era, some of it anyway.  She watched interviews with him and he seemed smug.  Smug but also funny, maybe.  

Anyway it came out that he'd been a creep and there was a giant crack in the wall that let all these other voices speak out together as a big chorus of condemnation. 

She was surprised to learn from this distance that actually Kevin Spacey wasn't the first, that some guy named Harvey Weinstein had been accused by dozens of women and then suddenly the whole industry they named Hollywood had been turned inside out. That most people didn't give much of a shit about Kevin Spacey but they had a phrase for it: The straw that broke the camel's back. 

Poor camel. 

(Actually for several hundred years after they had only allowed women to make or star in movies.)

#todo: expand this paragraph:
She knew though, from her teachers, that women were discounted. It's part of how they dismantled gender altogether.  

Anyway she returned to watching the interviews.  She had about an hour of time on the machines every day, there was plenty of time to watch. They were boring, frankly, clearly just about either the art of acting or the specifics of making this particular movie, most of which sounded awful.  

The Great Mourning had started with this indefinable ache in the hearts of everyone.  It was an ache that someone you liked was bad in some way. The phases of grief were real and they'd all been experiencing them for years without noticing. 

Maybe if I stop drinking so much Diet Dr. Pepper the polar bears will live. 

It's not so bad to use excessive force. 

What the fuck is wrong with us that we let these things happen? 

And it was finally that we just started naming it. 

We were sad to lose Kevin Spacey. We were sad that all those movies he had been in were now filled with a creep whose face we didn't like looking at.  We were sad that baby puffins were dying of starvation with fish stuck in their throats because their moms could only bring them fish that were too big for them to swallow.  We were sad as American democracy, flawed as it was started to crumble.  But we didn't see it, we just moved forward forward forward until the Great Mourning began.

The economy took a big hit that year. 