Fi couldn't help laughing at Un's little party tricks. She'd seem them before, a thousand times, and she knew what he was really like underneath it all -- but all the same, he was funny. She felt a tightness in her laugh anticipating the trouble to come. Un stood in front of the group, wearing a ridiculous hat with goat horns on it.  Fi could see the small group around him hanging on every word, knew the cadence of his words without hearing them. She had always felt welcomed around him and even as she aged, he had cared for and protected her. But all that had changed. She knew now that he...he wasn't who she had expected. As she got older, he was more and more cold to her. They were colleagues more than family, she was there to make the tea.  Once, so long ago, she had caused a white rose (new flower pls) to bloom in the dead of winter, to please Un. It hadn't been too hard on the rose, she'd been careful of that, but she knew that this would demonstrate to him her skills. She could do so much and not once did he ask for any of these powers. He'd smiled, tightly, and directed her to put the flower in a vase. She had done it, had changed the water every day, used her magic to strengthen the rose so it lived for weeks and weeks. He never said anything or looked at it, as far as she could tell, and finally one day, her birthday, she had brought the tea and found the vase in the sink, the rose in the trash. Here, now, was that effusive, charming person everyone loved. One of the young Delvers was telling him a story, probably about something small and trivial, and he was glued to her, eyes wide, leaned forward. Anything in public a big show. She grabbed a glass of tea, spiked with a little alcohol for the festivities, (Would they drink though? No.) Tonight she would not be able to participate in the party, no one would touch her, no one would want to be connected with her.  She climbed the stairs out of the sunken room, paused in the frame of the double wooden doors. The doors were carved with the honeycomb motif, of course, and she idly traced a finger as she looked around the room. Hoping someone would ask her to stay, knowing no one would.

