Window dressing

The windows were naked.  They gaped open to her, blind and unseeing eyes though she couldn't tell which side they were looking at: the apartment full of stuff or the outside world. 

Someone had left the lights on after they died.  It had been 17 days and the lights were still on, blazing into the early morning light.  The neighbors had to appreciate that at 2 a.m.

She dug the keys out of her pocket and searched for one that worked.  It was time to clean up.

---

What I really mean to say is that she is not always a she, sometimes she goes by they. Sometimes she goes by she.  It changes at the slightest whim. A breeze touching her cheek could change it. But she rarely let anybody know what she was feeling because it got too complicated.  So she let certain people learn one pronoun and other people learn a different pronoun and she lived frozen in that pronoun for them because it was easier than living as the right pronoun each moment.  She flickered faster than people were willing to keep up with. 

(Dear self: You don't have to use consistent pronouns because it's likely no one will ever read this book.  You can literally write anything you want into being, including your own delicate gender identity.)

---

And why interrupt a scene laying out the death of people with an explanation of a character's gender? Because that's how it is, all the time, it's a constantly confusing and disruptive experience that butts in at wildly inappropriate time.

---

The question is, are we at the end or the beginning? 

---

It was his 43rd birthday today.  She woke up feeling him next to her, scrolling through something on his phone.  She did not open her eyes.  She wondered if she could get away with not wishing him a happy birthday at all and then decided she could not.  She rolled over and stood up ...
